alternatives - maintain symbolic links determining default commands creates,
removes, maintains and displays information about the symbolic links
comprising the alternatives system. The alternatives system is a
reimplementation of the Debian alternatives system. It was rewritten primarily
to remove the dependence on perl; it is intended to be a drop in replacement
for Debian's update-dependencies script. This man page is a slightly modified
version of the man page from the Debian project.  It is possible for several
programs fulfilling the same or similar functions to be installed on a single
system at the same time.  For example, many systems have several text editors
installed at once.  This gives choice to the users of a system, allowing each
to use a different editor, if desired, but makes it difficult for a program to
make a good choice of editor to invoke if the user has not specified a
particular preference.	The alternatives system aims to solve this problem.  A
generic name in the filesystem is shared by all files providing
interchangeable functionality.	The alternatives system and the system
administrator together determine which actual file is referenced by this
generic name.  For example, if the text editors and are both installed on the
system, the alternatives system will cause the generic name to refer to by
default.  The system administrator can override this and cause it to refer to
instead, and the alternatives system will not alter this setting until
explicitly requested to do so.	The generic name is not a direct symbolic link
to the selected alternative.  Instead, it is a symbolic link to a name in the
which in turn is a symbolic link to the actual file referenced.	 This is done
so that the system administrator's changes can be confined within the
directory: the FHS (q.v.) gives reasons why this is a Good Thing.  When each
package providing a file with a particular functionality is installed, changed
or removed, is called to update information about that file in the
alternatives system.  is usually called from the or scripts in RPM packages.
It is often useful for a number of alternatives to be synchronised, so that
they are changed as a group; for example, when several versions of the editor
are installed, the man page referenced by should correspond to the executable
referenced by handles this by means of and links; when the leader is changed,
any associated followers are changed too.  A leader link and its associated
followers make up a Each link group is, at any given time, in one of two
modes: automatic or manual.  When a group is in automatic mode, the
alternatives system will automatically decide, as packages are installed and
removed, whether and how to update the links.  In manual mode, the
alternatives system will not change the links; it will leave all the decisions
to the system administrator.  Link groups are in automatic mode when they are
first introduced to the system.	 If the system administrator makes changes to
the system's automatic settings, this will be noticed the next time is run on
the changed link's group, and the group will automatically be switched to
manual mode.  Each alternative has a associated with it.  When a link group is
in automatic mode, the alternatives pointed to by members of the group will be
those which have the highest priority.	When using the option, will list all
of the choices for the link group of which given is the leader link.  You will
then be prompted for which of the choices to use for the link group. Once you
make a change, the link group will no longer be in mode. You will need to use
the option in order to return to the automatic state.  Since the activities of
are quite involved, some specific terms will help to explain its operation.
generic name A name, like which refers, via the alternatives system, to one of
a number of files of similar function.	symlink Without any further
qualification, this means a symbolic link in the alternatives directory: one
which the system administrator is expected to adjust.  alternative The name of
a specific file in the filesystem, which may be made accessible via a generic
name using the alternatives system.  alternatives directory A directory, by
default containing the symlinks.  administrative directory A directory, by
default containing state information.  /etc/alternatives.admindir on OSTree-
based systems.	link group A set of related symlinks, intended to be updated
as a group.  leader link The link in a link group which determines how the
other links in the group are configured.  follower link A link in a link group
which is controlled by the setting of the leader link.	automatic mode When a
link group is in automatic mode, the alternatives system ensures that the
links in the group point to the highest priority alternatives appropriate for
the group.  manual mode When a link group is in manual mode, the alternatives
system will not make any changes to the system administrator's settings.
Exactly one action must be specified if is to perform any meaningful task.
Any number of the common options may be specified together with any action.
Generate more comments about what is doing.  Don't generate any comments
unless errors occur.  This option is not yet implemented.  Don't actually do
anything, just say what would be done.	This option is not yet implemented.
Give some usage information (and say which version of this is).	 Tell which
version of this is (and give some usage information).  When switching between
alternatives, if the new variant does not provide some files, keep the links
pointed to the previous implementation.	 It prevents issues with missing files
due to switching between versions.  When removing, adding or switching between
alternatives, check if the link does not point to some other location than
altdir (/etc/alternatives/ by default).	 In such case the link is not
modified.  --altdir directory Specifies the alternatives directory, when this
is to be different from the default.  --admindir directory Specifies the
administrative directory, when this is to be different from the default.
--install link name path priority [--follower follower_link follower_name
follower_path] [--initscript service]...  Add a group of alternatives to the
system.	 is the generic name for the leader link, is the name of its symlink,
is the alternative being introduced for the leader link, and is the priority
of the alternatives group. Higher priorities take precendence if no
alternative is manually selected.  and are the generic name, symlink name and
alternative for a follower link, and is the name of any associated initscript
for the alternative.  are a Red Hat Linux specific options.  Zero or more
options, each followed by three arguments, may be specified.  If the leader
symlink specified exists already in the alternatives system's records, the
information supplied will be added as a new set of alternatives for the group.
Otherwise, a new group, set to automatic mode, will be added with this
information.  If the group is in automatic mode, and the newly added
alternatives' priority is higher than any other installed alternatives for
this group, the symlinks will be updated to point to the newly added
alternatives.

If is used, the alternatives system will manage the initscript associated with
the alternative via registering and unregistering the init script depending on
which alternative is active.

is a Red Hat Linux specific option.


can be used to group similar alternatives. If the group is in manual mode and
the alternative currently used is removed, alternatives will try to change
links to different one with same family and highest priority.

is a Red Hat Linux specific option.  --remove name path Remove an alternative
and all of its associated follower links.  is a name in the alternatives
directory, and is an absolute filename to which could be linked.  If is indeed
linked to will be updated to point to another appropriate alternative, or
removed if there is no such alternative left.  Associated follower links will
be updated or removed, correspondingly.	 If the link is not a symlink, no
links are changed; only the information about the alternative is removed.
--set name path/family The symbolic link and followers for link group name set
to those configured for path, and the link group is set to manual mode.	 If
you use family, then the links and group is configured to the member of given
family with highest priority (and moved to manual mode).  This option is not
in the original Debian implementation.	--config name Present the user with a
configuration menu for choosing the leader link and followers for link group
name. Once chosen, the link group is set to manual mode.  --auto name Switch
the leader symlink to automatic mode.  In the process, this symlink and its
followers are updated to point to the highest priority installed alternatives.
--display name Display information about the link group of which is the leader
link.  Information displayed includes the group's mode (auto or manual), which
alternative the symlink currently points to, what other alternatives are
available (and their corresponding follower alternatives), and the highest
priority alternative currently installed.  --list  Display information about
all link groups.  --remove-all name Remove the whole link group name. Use with
caution.  --add-follower name path follower_link follower_name follower_path
Add a follower link to an alternative identified by name and path.
follower_name, follower_link and follower_path are the generic name, symlink
name and alternative for the follower.	--remove-follower name path
follower_name Remove follower with generic name follower_name from alternative
identified by name and path.  The default alternatives directory.  Can be
overridden by the option.  The default administration directory.
/etc/alternatives.admindir on OSTree-based systems.  Can be overridden by the
option.	 The requested action was successfully performed.  Problems were
encountered whilst parsing the command line or performing the action.
chatters incessantly about its activities on its standard output channel.  If
problems occur, outputs error messages on its standard error channel and
returns an exit status of 2.  These diagnostics should be self-explanatory; if
you do not find them so, please report this as a bug.  If you find a bug,
please report it using the Red Hat bug tracking system at
http://bugzilla.redhat.com.  If you find any discrepancy between the operation
of and this manual page, it is a bug, either in the implementation or the
documentation; please report it.  Any significant differences between this
implementation and Debian's is also a bug and should be reported, unless
otherwise noted in this man page.  alternatives is copyright 2002 Red Hat,
Inc..  It is free software; see the GNU General Public Licence version 2 or
later for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty.  This manual page is
copyright 1997/98 Charles Briscoe-Smith and 2002 Red Hat, Inc.	This is free
documentation; see the GNU General Public Licence version 2 or later for
copying conditions.  There is NO WARRANTY.  FHS, the Filesystem Hierarchy
Standard.


