apropos - search the manual page names and descriptions ] ...  Each manual
page has a short description available within it.  searches the descriptions
for instances of

is usually a regular expression, as if was used, or may contain wildcards or
match the exact keyword Using these options, it may be necessary to quote the
or escape (\) the special characters to stop the shell from interpreting them.

The standard matching rules allow matches to be made against the page name and
word boundaries in the description.

The database searched by is updated by the program.  Depending on your
installation, this may be run by a periodic cron job, or may need to be run
manually after new manual pages have been installed.  Print debugging
information.  Print verbose warning messages.  Interpret each keyword as a
regular expression.  This is the default behaviour.  Each keyword will be
matched against the page names and the descriptions independently.  It can
match any part of either.  The match is not limited to word boundaries.
Interpret each keyword as a pattern containing shell style wildcards.  Each
keyword will be matched against the page names and the descriptions
independently.	If is also used, a match will only be found if an expanded
keyword matches an entire description or page name.  Otherwise the keyword is
also allowed to match on word boundaries in the description.  Each keyword
will be exactly matched against the page names and the descriptions.  Only
display items that match all the supplied keywords.  The default is to display
items that match any keyword.  Do not trim output to the terminal width.
Normally, output will be truncated to the terminal width to avoid ugly results
from poorly-written sections.  -s list, --sections=list, --section=list Search
only the given manual sections.	 is a colon- or comma-separated list of
sections.  If an entry in is a simple section, for example "3", then the
displayed list of descriptions will include pages in sections "3", "3perl",
"3x", and so on; while if an entry in has an extension, for example "3perl",
then the list will only include pages in that exact part of the manual
section.  -m system[,...], --systems=system[,...] If this system has access to
other operating systems' manual page descriptions, they can be searched using
this option.  To search NewOS's manual page descriptions, use the option

The specified can be a combination of comma-delimited operating system names.
To include a search of the native operating system's descriptions, include the
system name in the argument string.  This option will override the environment
variable.  Specify an alternate set of colon-delimited manual page hierarchies
to search.  By default, uses the environment variable, unless it is empty or
unset, in which case it will determine an appropriate manpath based on your
environment variable.  This option overrides the contents of will normally
determine your current locale by a call to the C function which interrogates
various environment variables, possibly including and To temporarily override
the determined value, use this option to supply a string directly to Note that
it will not take effect until the search for pages actually begins.  Output
such as the help message will always be displayed in the initially determined
locale.	 Use this user configuration file rather than the default of Print a
help message and exit.	Print a short usage message and exit.  Display version
information.  Successful program execution.  Usage, syntax or configuration
file error.  Operational error.	 Nothing was found that matched the criteria
specified.  If is set, it will have the same effect as if it had been
specified as the argument to the option.  If is set, its value is interpreted
as the colon-delimited manual page hierarchy search path to use.

See the section of for the default behaviour and details of how this
environment variable is handled.  If is set, its value is used as the terminal
width (see the option).	 If it is not set, the terminal width will be
calculated using the value of and if available, or falling back to 80
characters if all else fails.  If is set, even to a null value, the default
search will be as an extended regex Nowadays, this is the default behaviour
anyway.	 A traditional global database cache.  An FHS compliant global
database cache.	 A traditional text database.
Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk).
Fabrizio Polacco (fpolacco@debian.org).
Colin Watson (cjwatson@debian.org).
https://gitlab.com/man-db/man-db/-/issues
https://savannah.nongnu.org/bugs/?group=man-db


