arping - send ARP REQUEST to a neighbour host arping [-AbDfhqUV] [-c count]
[-w deadline] [-i interval] [-s source] [-I interface] {destination} Ping
destination on device interface by ARP packets, using source address source.
arping supports IPv4 addresses only. For IPv6, see ndisc6(8).  -A The same as
-U, but ARP REPLY packets used instead of ARP REQUEST.	-b Send only MAC level
broadcasts. Normally arping starts from sending broadcast, and switch to
unicast after reply received.  -c count Stop after sending count ARP REQUEST
packets. With deadline option, instead wait for count ARP REPLY packets, or
until the timeout expires.  -D Duplicate address detection mode (DAD). See
RFC2131, 4.4.1. Returns 0, if DAD succeeded i.e. no replies are received.  -f
Finish after the first reply confirming that target is alive.  -I interface
Name of network device where to send ARP REQUEST packets.  -h Print help page
and exit.  -q Quiet output. Nothing is displayed.  -s source IP source address
to use in ARP packets. If this option is absent, source address is: • In DAD
mode (with option -D) set to 0.0.0.0.  • In Unsolicited ARP mode (with options
-U or -A) set to destination.  • Otherwise, it is calculated from routing
tables.	 -U Unsolicited ARP mode to update neighbours' ARP caches. No replies
are expected.  -V Print version of the program and exit.  -w deadline Specify
a timeout, in seconds, before arping exits regardless of how many packets have
been sent or received. If any replies are received, exit with status 0,
otherwise status 1. When combined with the count option, exit with status 0 if
count replies are received before the deadline expiration, otherwise status 1.
-i interval Specify an interval, in seconds, between packets.  ndisc6(8),
ping(8), clockdiff(8), tracepath(8).  arping was written by Alexey Kuznetsov
<kuznet@ms2.inr.ac.ru>.	 arping requires CAP_NET_RAW capability to be
executed. It is not recommended to be used as set-uid root, because it allows
user to modify ARP caches of neighbour hosts.  arping is part of iputils
package.


