autoreconf - Update generated configuration files [OPTION]... [DIRECTORY]...
Run 'autoconf' and, when needed, 'aclocal', 'autoheader', 'automake',
'autopoint' (formerly 'gettextize'), 'libtoolize', 'intltoolize', and
'gtkdocize' to regenerate the GNU Build System files in specified DIRECTORIES
and their subdirectories (defaulting to '.').  By default, it only remakes
those files that are older than their sources.	If you install new versions of
the GNU Build System, you can make 'autoreconf' remake all of the files by
giving it the '--force' option.	 -h, --help print this help, then exit -V,
--version print version number, then exit -v, --verbose verbosely report
processing -d, --debug don't remove temporary files -f, --force consider all
generated and standard files obsolete -i, --install copy missing standard
auxiliary files --no-recursive don't rebuild sub-packages -s, --symlink with
-i, install symbolic links instead of copies -m, --make when applicable,
re-run ./configure && make -W, --warnings=CATEGORY report the warnings falling
in CATEGORY (comma-separated list accepted) cross cross compilation issues gnu
GNU coding standards (default in gnu and gnits modes) obsolete obsolete
features or constructions (default) override user redefinitions of Automake
rules or variables portability portability issues (default in gnu and gnits
modes) portability-recursive nested Make variables (default with
-Wportability) extra-portability extra portability issues related to obscure
tools syntax dubious syntactic constructs (default) unsupported unsupported or
incomplete features (default) all turn on all the warnings none turn off all
the warnings no-CATEGORY turn off warnings in CATEGORY error treat all enabled
warnings as errors -B, --prepend-include=DIR prepend directory DIR to search
path -I, --include=DIR append directory DIR to search path The environment
variables AUTOCONF, ACLOCAL, AUTOHEADER, AUTOM4TE, AUTOMAKE, AUTOPOINT,
GTKDOCIZE, INTLTOOLIZE, LIBTOOLIZE, M4, MAKE, and WARNINGS are honored.
Written by David J. MacKenzie and Akim Demaille.  Report bugs to or via
Savannah: Copyright © 2023 Free Software Foundation, Inc.  License
GPLv3+/Autoconf: GNU GPL version 3 or later
<https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>,
<https://gnu.org/licenses/exceptions.html>
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is
NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

The full documentation for Autoconf is maintained as a Texinfo manual.	To
read the manual locally, use the command You can also consult the Web version
of the manual at


