blkdeactivate — utility to deactivate block devices The blkdeactivate utility
deactivates block devices. For mounted block devices, it attempts to unmount
them automatically before trying to deactivate. The utility currently supports
device-mapper devices (DM), including LVM volumes and software RAID MD
devices. LVM volumes are handled directly using the lvm(8) command, the rest
of device-mapper based devices are handled using the dmsetup(8) command.  MD
devices are handled using the mdadm(8) command.	 -d|--dmoptions dm_options
Comma separated list of device-mapper specific options.
Accepted options are: Retry removal several times in case of failure.  Force
device removal.	 Show errors reported from tools called by blkdeactivate.
Without this option, any error messages from these external tools are
suppressed and the blkdeactivate itself provides only a summary message to
indicate the device was skipped.  Display the help text.  -l|--lvmoptions
lvm_options Comma-separated list of LVM specific options: Retry removal
several times in case of failure.  Deactivate the whole LVM Volume Group when
processing a Logical Volume.  Deactivating the Volume Group as a whole is
quicker than deactivating each Logical Volume separately.  -r|--mdraidoptions
mdraid_options Comma-separated list of MD RAID specific options: Wait for MD
device's resync, recovery or reshape action to complete before deactivation.
-m|--mpathoptions mpath_options Comma-separated list of device-mapper
multipath specific options: Disable queueing on all multipath devices before
deactivation.  This avoids a situation where blkdeactivate may end up waiting
if all the paths are unavailable for any underlying device-mapper multipath
device.	 Unmount a mounted device before trying to deactivate it.  Without
this option used, a device that is mounted is not deactivated.
-o|--vdooptions vdo_options Comma-separated list of VDO specific options:
configfile=file Use specified VDO configuration file.  Run in verbose mode.
Use -vv for even more verbose mode.  Deactivate all supported block devices
found in the system, skipping mounted devices.
Deactivate all supported block devices found in the system, unmounting any
mounted devices first, if possible.
Deactivate the device /dev/vg/lvol0 together with all its holders, unmounting
any mounted devices first, if possible.
Deactivate all supported block devices found in the system. If the
deactivation of a device-mapper device fails, retry it. Deactivate the whole
Volume Group at once when processing an LVM Logical Volume.
Deactivate all supported block devices found in the system. If the
deactivation of a device-mapper device fails, retry it and force removal.


