bridge - show / manipulate bridge addresses and devices





-V[ersion] | -s[tatistics] | -n[etns] name | -b[atch] filename |
-com[pressvlans] | -c[olor] | -p[retty] | -j[son] | -o[neline] }























print the version of the utility and exit.

output more information. If this option is given multiple times, the amount of
information increases.	As a rule, the information is statistics or some time
values.

print detailed information about bridge vlan filter entries or MDB router
ports.

switches to the specified network namespace Actually it just simplifies
executing of:


to


Read commands from provided file or standard input and invoke them.  First
failure will cause termination of bridge command.

Don't terminate bridge command on errors in batch mode.	 If there were any
errors during execution of the commands, the application return code will be
non zero.

Show compressed VLAN list. It will show continuous VLANs with the range
instead of separated VLANs. Default is off.

Configure color output. If parameter is omitted or color output is enabled
regardless of stdout state. If parameter is stdout is checked to be a terminal
before enabling color output. If parameter is color output is disabled. If
specified multiple times, the last one takes precedence. This flag is ignored
if is also given.

Output results in JavaScript Object Notation (JSON).

When combined with -j generate a pretty JSON output.

output each record on a single line, replacing line feeds with the character.
This is convenient when you want to count records with or to the output.




- Bridge port.

- Forwarding Database entry.

- Multicast group database entry.

- VLAN filter list.

- VNI filter list.


Specifies the action to perform on the object.	The set of possible actions
depends on the object type.  As a rule, it is possible to and (or ) objects,
but some objects do not allow all of these operations or have some additional
commands. The command is available for all objects. It prints out a list of
available commands and argument syntax conventions.

If no command is given, some default command is assumed.  Usually it is or, if
the objects of this class cannot be listed,


objects correspond to the port devices of the bridge.

The corresponding commands set and display port status and bridge specific
attributes.


interface name of the bridge port

the STP path cost of the specified port.

the STP port priority. The priority value is an unsigned 8-bit quantity
(number between 0 and 255). This metric is used in the designated port an
droot port selection algorithms.

the operation state of the port. Except state 0 (disable STP or BPDU filter
feature), this is primarily used by user space STP/RSTP implementation. One
may enter port state name (case insensitive), or one of the numbers below.
Negative inputs are ignored, and unrecognized names return an error.

- port is in STP state. Make this port completely inactive for STP. This is
also called BPDU filter and could be used to disable STP on an untrusted port,
like a leaf virtual devices.


- port is in STP state. Only valid if STP is enabled on the bridge. In this
state the port listens for STP BPDUs and drops all other traffic frames.


- port is in STP state. Only valid if STP is enabled on the bridge. In this
state the port will accept traffic only for the purpose of updating MAC
address tables.


- port is in STP state. Port is fully active.


- port is in STP state. Only valid if STP is enabled on the bridge. This state
is used during the STP election process. In this state, port will only process
STP BPDUs.


Controls whether STP BPDUs will be processed by the bridge port. By default,
the flag is turned off allowed BPDU processing. Turning this flag on will
disables the bridge port if a STP BPDU packet is received.

If running Spanning Tree on bridge, hostile devices on the network may send
BPDU on a port and cause network failure. Setting will detect and stop this by
disabling the port.  The port will be restarted if link is brought down, or
removed and reattached.	 For example if guard is enable on eth0:


Controls whether traffic may be send back out of the port on which it was
received. This option is also called reflective relay mode, and is used to
support basic VEPA (Virtual Ethernet Port Aggregator) capabilities.  By
default, this flag is turned off and the bridge will not forward traffic back
out of the receiving port.

This flag allows the bridge to immediately stop multicast traffic on a port
that receives IGMP Leave message. It is only used with IGMP snooping is
enabled on the bridge. By default the flag is off.

Controls whether a given port is allowed to become root port or not. Only used
when STP is enabled on the bridge. By default the flag is off.

This feature is also called root port guard.  If BPDU is received from a leaf
(edge) port, it should not be elected as root port. This could be used if
using STP on a bridge and the downstream bridges are not fully trusted; this
prevents a hostile guest from rerouting traffic.

Controls whether a given port will learn MAC addresses from received traffic
or not. If learning if off, the bridge will end up flooding any traffic for
which it has no FDB entry. By default this flag is on.

Controls whether a given port will sync MAC addresses learned on device port
to bridge FDB.

Controls whether unicast traffic for which there is no FDB entry will be
flooded towards this given port. By default this flag is on.

Some network interface cards support HW bridge functionality and they may be
configured in different modes. Currently support modes are:

- Data sent between HW ports is sent on the wire to the external switch.

- bridging happens in hardware.

Controls flooding of broadcast traffic on the given port.  By default this
flag is on.

Controls whether multicast traffic for which there is no MDB entry will be
flooded towards this given port. By default this flag is on.

Sets the maximum number of MDB entries that can be registered for a given
port. Attempts to register more MDB entries at the port than this limit allows
will be rejected, whether they are done through netlink (e.g. the bridge
tool), or IGMP or MLD membership reports. Setting a limit to 0 has the effect
of disabling the limit. The default value is 0. See also the ip link option
mcast_hash_max.

This flag is almost the same as the per-VLAN flag, see below, except its value
can only be set in the range 0-2.  The default is where the bridge figures out
automatically where an IGMP/MLD querier, MRDISC capable device, or PIM router,
is located.  Setting this flag to is useful in cases where the multicast
router does not indicate its presence in any meaningful way (e.g. older
versions of SMCRoute, or mrouted), or when there is a need for forwarding both
known and unknown IP multicast to a secondary/backup router.

Controls whether a given port will replicate packets using unicast instead of
multicast. By default this flag is off.

This is done by copying the packet per host and changing the multicast
destination MAC to a unicast one accordingly.

works on top of the multicast snooping feature of the bridge. Which means
unicast copies are only delivered to hosts which are interested in it and
signalized this via IGMP/MLD reports previously.

This feature is intended for interface types which have a more reliable and/or
efficient way to deliver unicast packets than broadcast ones (e.g. WiFi).

However, it should only be enabled on interfaces where no IGMPv2/MLDv1 report
suppression takes place. IGMP/MLD report suppression issue is usually overcome
by the network daemon (supplicant) enabling AP isolation and by that
separating all STAs.

Delivery of STA-to-STA IP multicast is made possible again by enabling and
utilizing the bridge hairpin mode, which considers the incoming port as a
potential outgoing port, too (see option).  Hairpin mode is performed after
multicast snooping, therefore leading to only deliver reports to STAs running
a multicast router.

Controls whether neigh discovery (arp and nd) proxy and suppression is enabled
on the port. By default this flag is off.

Controls whether per-VLAN neigh discovery (arp and nd) proxy and suppression
is enabled on the port. When on, the bridge link option neigh_suppress has no
effect and the per-VLAN state is set using the bridge vlan option
neigh_suppress. By default this flag is off.

Controls whether vlan to tunnel mapping is enabled on the port. By default
this flag is off.

Controls whether a given port will be isolated, which means it will be able to
communicate with non-isolated ports only.  By default this flag is off.

Controls whether a port is locked or not. When locked, non-link-local frames
received through the port are dropped unless an FDB entry with the MAC source
address points to the port. The common use case is IEEE 802.1X where hosts can
authenticate themselves by exchanging EAPOL frames with an authenticator.
After authentication is complete, the user space control plane can install a
matching FDB entry to allow traffic from the host to be forwarded by the
bridge. When learning is enabled on a locked port, the bridge option needs to
be on to prevent the bridge from learning from received EAPOL frames. By
default this flag is off.

Controls whether MAC Authentication Bypass (MAB) is enabled on the port or
not.  MAB can only be enabled on a locked port that has learning enabled. When
enabled, FDB entries are learned from received traffic and have the "locked"
FDB flag set. The flag can only be set by the kernel and it indicates that the
FDB entry cannot be used to authenticate the corresponding host. User space
can decide to authenticate the host by replacing the FDB entry and clearing
the "locked" FDB flag. Locked FDB entries can roam to unlocked (authorized)
ports in which case the "locked" flag is cleared. FDB entries cannot roam to
locked ports regardless of MAB being enabled or not. Therefore, locked FDB
entries are only created if an FDB entry with the given {MAC, VID} does not
already exist.	This behavior prevents unauthenticated hosts from disrupting
traffic destined to already authenticated hosts. Locked FDB entries act like
regular dynamic entries with respect to forwarding and aging. By default this
flag is off.

If the port loses carrier all traffic will be redirected to the configured
backup port

Removes the currently configured backup port

The FDB nexthop object ID (see ip-nexthop(8)) to attach to packets being
redirected to a backup port that has VLAN tunnel mapping enabled (via the
vlan_tunnel option). Setting a value of 0 (default) has the effect of not
attaching any ID.

link setting is configured on specified physical device

link setting is configured on the software bridge (default)

display current time when using monitor option.


This command displays ports configuration and flags for all bridges by
default.

only display the specific bridge port named DEV.

only display ports of the bridge named DEVICE. This is similar to "ip link
show master <bridge_device>" command.


objects contain known Ethernet addresses on a link.

The corresponding commands display fdb entries, add new entries, append
entries, and delete old ones.


This command creates a new fdb entry.

the Ethernet MAC address.

the interface to which this address is associated.

- is a local permanent fdb entry, which means that the bridge will not forward
frames with this destination MAC address and VLAN ID, but terminate them
locally. This flag is default unless "static" or "dynamic" are explicitly
specified.


- this is a synonym for "local"


- is a static (no arp) fdb entry


- is a dynamic reachable age-able fdb entry


- the operation is fulfilled directly by the driver for the specified network
device. If the network device belongs to a master like a bridge, then the
bridge is bypassed and not notified of this operation (and if the device does
notify the bridge, it is driver-specific behavior and not mandated by this
flag, check the driver for more details). The "bridge fdb add" command can
also be used on the bridge device itself, and in this case, the added fdb
entries will be locally terminated (not forwarded). In the latter case, the
"self" flag is mandatory. The flag is set by default if "master" is not
specified.


- if the specified network device is a port that belongs to a master device
such as a bridge, the operation is fulfilled by the master device's driver,
which may in turn notify the port driver too of the address. If the specified
device is a master itself, such as a bridge, this flag is invalid.


- the destination address is associated with a router.	Valid if the
referenced device is a VXLAN type device and has route short circuit enabled.


- the address is in use. User space can use this option to indicate to the
kernel that the fdb entry is in use.


- this entry was learned externally. This option can be used to indicate to
the kernel that an entry was hardware or user-space controller learnt dynamic
entry. Kernel will not age such an entry.


- this entry will not change its port due to learning.


The next command line parameters apply only when the specified device is of
type VXLAN.  the IP address of the destination VXLAN tunnel endpoint where the
Ethernet MAC ADDRESS resides.

the src VNI Network Identifier (or VXLAN Segment ID) this entry belongs to.
Used only when the vxlan device is in external or collect metadata mode. If
omitted the value specified at vxlan device creation will be used.

the VXLAN VNI Network Identifier (or VXLAN Segment ID) to use to connect to
the remote VXLAN tunnel endpoint.  If omitted the value specified at vxlan
device creation will be used.

the UDP destination PORT number to use to connect to the remote VXLAN tunnel
endpoint.  If omitted the default value is used.

device name of the outgoing interface for the VXLAN device driver to reach the
remote VXLAN tunnel endpoint.

ecmp nexthop group for the VXLAN device driver to reach remote VXLAN tunnel
endpoints.

This command adds a new fdb entry with an already known Valid only for
multicast link layer addresses.	 The command adds support for broadcast and
multicast Ethernet MAC addresses.  The Ethernet MAC address is added multiple
times into the forwarding database and the vxlan device driver sends a copy of
the data packet to each entry found.

The arguments are the same as with

This command removes an existing fdb entry.

The arguments are the same as with

If no matching entry is found, a new one will be created instead.

The arguments are the same as with


This command displays the current forwarding table.

With the option, the command becomes verbose. It prints out the last updated
and last used time for each entry.


lookup a bridge forwarding table entry.

the Ethernet MAC address.

the interface to which this address is associated.

the bridge port to which this address is associated. same as dev above.

the bridge to which this address is associated.

- the address is associated with the port drivers fdb. Usually hardware.

- the address is associated with master devices fdb. Usually software
(default).


flush the matching bridge forwarding table entries. Some options below have a
negated form when "no" is prepended to them (e.g. permanent and nopermanent).

the target device for the operation. If the device is a bridge port and
"master" is set then the operation will be fulfilled by its master device's
driver and all entries pointing to that port will be deleted.

the target bridge port for the operation. If the bridge device is specified
then only entries pointing to the bridge itself will be deleted. Note that the
target device specified by this option will override the one specified by dev
above.

the target VLAN ID for the operation. Match forwarding table entries only with
the specified VLAN ID.

the src VNI Network Identifier (or VXLAN Segment ID) for the operation. Match
forwarding table entries only with the specified VNI. Valid if the referenced
device is a VXLAN type device.

the ECMP nexthop group for the operation. Match forwarding table entries only
with the specified NHID. Valid if the referenced device is a VXLAN type
device.

the VXLAN VNI Network Identifier (or VXLAN Segment ID) for the operation.
Match forwarding table entries only with the specified VNI. Valid if the
referenced device is a VXLAN type device.

the UDP destination PORT number for the operation. Match forwarding table
entries only with the specified PORT. Valid if the referenced device is a
VXLAN type device.

the IP address of the destination VXLAN tunnel endpoint for the operation.
Match forwarding table entries only with the specified IPADDR. Valid if the
referenced device is a VXLAN type device.

the operation is fulfilled directly by the driver for the specified network
device. If the network device belongs to a master like a bridge, then the
bridge is bypassed and not notified of this operation. The "bridge fdb flush"
command can also be used on the bridge device itself. The flag is set by
default if "master" is not specified.

if the specified network device is a port that belongs to a master device such
as a bridge, the operation is fulfilled by the master device's driver.	Flush
with both 'master' and 'self' is not recommended with attributes that are not
supported by all devices (e.g., vlan, vni). Such command will be handled by
bridge or VXLAN driver, but will return an error from the driver that does not
support the attribute. Instead, run flush twice - once with 'self' and once
with 'master', and each one with the supported attributes.

if specified then only permanent entries will be deleted or respectively if
"no" is prepended then only non-permanent entries will be deleted.

if specified then only static entries will be deleted or respectively if "no"
is prepended then only non-static entries will be deleted.

if specified then only dynamic entries will be deleted or respectively if "no"
is prepended then only non-dynamic (static or permanent) entries will be
deleted.

if specified then only entries with added_by_user flag will be deleted or
respectively if "no" is prepended then only entries without added_by_user flag
will be deleted.

if specified then only entries with extern_learn flag will be deleted or
respectively if "no" is prepended then only entries without extern_learn flag
will be deleted.

if specified then only entries with sticky flag will be deleted or
respectively if "no" is prepended then only entries without sticky flag will
be deleted.

if specified then only entries with offloaded flag will be deleted or
respectively if "no" is prepended then only entries without offloaded flag
will be deleted.


if specified then only entries with router flag will be deleted or
respectively if "no" is prepended then only entries without router flag will
be deleted. Valid if the referenced device is a VXLAN type device.



objects contain known IP or L2 multicast group addresses on a link.

The corresponding commands display mdb entries, add new entries, replace
entries and delete old ones.


This command creates a new mdb entry.

the interface where this group address is associated.

the port whose link is known to have members of this multicast group.

the multicast group address (IPv4, IPv6 or L2 multicast) whose members reside
on the link connected to the port.

- the mdb entry is permanent. Optional for IPv4 and IPv6, mandatory for L2.


- the mdb entry is temporary (default)


optional source IP address of a sender for this multicast group. If IGMPv3 for
IPv4, or MLDv2 for IPv6 respectively, are enabled it will be included in the
lookup when forwarding multicast traffic.

the VLAN ID which is known to have members of this multicast group.

controls whether the sources in the entry's source list are in INCLUDE or
EXCLUDE mode. Can only be set for (*, G) entries.

optional list of source IP addresses of senders for this multicast group,
separated by a ','.  Whether the entry forwards packets from these senders or
not is determined by the entry's filter mode, which becomes a mandatory
argument. Can only be set for (*, G) entries.

the routing protocol identifier of this mdb entry. Can be a number or a string
from the file /etc/iproute2/rt_protos. If the routing protocol is not given,
then is assumed.

The next command line parameters apply only when the specified device is of
type VXLAN.

the IP address of the destination VXLAN tunnel endpoint where the multicast
receivers reside.

the UDP destination port number to use to connect to the remote VXLAN tunnel
endpoint. If omitted, the value specified at VXLAN device creation will be
used.

the VXLAN VNI Network Identifier to use to connect to the remote VXLAN tunnel
endpoint. If omitted, the value specified at VXLAN device creation will be
used or the source VNI when the VXLAN device is in external mode.

the source VNI Network Identifier this entry belongs to. Used only when the
VXLAN device is in external mode. If omitted, the value specified at VXLAN
device creation will be used.

device name of the outgoing interface for the VXLAN device to reach the remote
VXLAN tunnel endpoint.

The 0.0.0.0 and :: MDB entries are special catchall entries used to flood IPv4
and IPv6 unregistered multicast packets, respectively. Therefore, when these
entries are programmed, the catchall 00:00:00:00:00:00 FDB entry will only
flood broadcast, unknown unicast and link-local multicast.

This command removes an existing mdb entry.

The arguments are the same as with

If no matching entry is found, a new one will be created instead.

The arguments are the same as with


This command displays the current multicast group membership table. The table
is populated by IGMP and MLD snooping in the bridge driver automatically. It
can be altered by and commands manually too.

the interface only whose entries should be listed. Default is to list all
bridge interfaces.

With the option, the command becomes verbose. It prints out the ports known to
have a connected router.

With the option, the command displays timer values for mdb and router port
entries.


This command retrieves a multicast group database entry based on its key.

the interface where this group address is associated.

the multicast group address (IPv4, IPv6 or L2 multicast).

the source IP address. Only relevant when retrieving an (S, G) entry.

the VLAN ID. Only relevant when the bridge is VLAN-aware.

the source VNI Network Identifier. Only relevant when the VXLAN device is in
external mode.


This command flushes the matching multicast group database entries.

the interface where this group address is associated.

the target port for the operation. If the bridge device is specified then only
entries pointing to the bridge itself will be deleted.

the VLAN ID for the operation. Match entries only with the specified VLAN ID.

the source VNI Network Identifier for the operation. Match entries only with
the specified source VNI.

the routing protocol identifier for the operation. Match entries only with the
specified routing protocol. Can be a number or a string from the file
/etc/iproute2/rt_protos.

if specified then only permanent entries will be deleted or respectively if
"no" is prepended then only non-permanent (temp) entries will be deleted.

the IP address of the destination VXLAN tunnel endpoint where the multicast
receivers reside. Match entries only with the specified destination IP.

the UDP destination port number to use to connect to the remote VXLAN tunnel
endpoint. Match entries only with the specified destination port number.

the VXLAN VNI Network Identifier to use to connect to the remote VXLAN tunnel
endpoint. Match entries only with the specified destination VNI.


In the multiple spanning tree (MST) model, the active paths through a network
can be different for different VLANs.  In other words, a bridge port can
simultaneously forward one subset of VLANs, while blocking another.

Provided that the bridge option is enabled, a group of VLANs can be forwarded
along the same spanning tree by associating them with the same instance (MSTI)
using


Set the spanning tree state for in the multiple spanning tree instance to

Interface name of the bridge port.

The multiple spanning tree instance.

The spanning tree state, see the option of for supported states.


List current MST port states in every MSTI.

If specified, only display states of the bridge port with this interface name.


objects contain known VLAN IDs for a link.

The corresponding commands display vlan filter entries, add new entries, and
delete old ones.


This command creates a new vlan filter entry.

the interface with which this vlan is associated.

the VLAN ID that identifies the vlan.

the TUNNEL ID that maps to this vlan. The tunnel id is set in dst_metadata for
every packet that belongs to this vlan (applicable to bridge ports with
vlan_tunnel flag set).

the vlan specified is to be considered a PVID at ingress.  Any untagged frames
will be assigned to this VLAN.

the vlan specified is to be treated as untagged on egress.

the vlan is configured on the specified physical device. Required if the
device is the bridge device.

the vlan is configured on the software bridge (default).

This command removes an existing vlan filter entry.

The arguments are the same as with The flags are ignored.


This command changes vlan filter entry's options.

the interface with which this vlan is associated.

the VLAN ID that identifies the vlan.

the operation state of the vlan. One may enter STP state name (case
insensitive), or one of the numbers below. Negative inputs are ignored, and
unrecognized names return an error. Note that the state is set only for the
vlan of the specified device, e.g. if it is a bridge port then the state will
be set only for the vlan of the port.

- vlan is in STP state. Make this vlan completely inactive for STP. This is
also called BPDU filter and could be used to disable STP on an untrusted vlan.


- vlan is in STP state. Only valid if STP is enabled on the bridge. In this
state the vlan listens for STP BPDUs and drops all other traffic frames.


- vlan is in STP state. Only valid if STP is enabled on the bridge. In this
state the vlan will accept traffic only for the purpose of updating MAC
address tables.


- vlan is in STP state. This is the default vlan state.


- vlan is in STP state. Only valid if STP is enabled on the bridge. This state
is used during the STP election process. In this state, the vlan will only
process STP BPDUs.


Sets the maximum number of MDB entries that can be registered for a given VLAN
on a given port. A VLAN-specific equivalent of the per-port option of the same
name, see above for details.

Note that this option is only available when ip link option
mcast_vlan_snooping is enabled.

configure this vlan and interface's multicast router mode, note that only
modes 0 - 2 are available for bridge devices.  A vlan and interface with a
multicast router will receive all multicast traffic.  may be either

- to disable multicast router.


- to let the system detect the presence of routers (default).


- to permanently enable multicast traffic forwarding on this vlan and
interface.


- to temporarily mark this vlan and port as having a multicast router, i.e.
enable multicast traffic forwarding. This mode is available only for ports.


Controls whether neigh discovery (arp and nd) proxy and suppression is enabled
for a given VLAN on a given port. By default this flag is off.

Note that this option only takes effect when bridge link option
neigh_vlan_suppress is enabled for a given port.


This command displays the current VLAN filter table.

With the option, the command becomes verbose. It displays the per-vlan
options.

With the option, the command displays per-vlan traffic statistics.


This command displays the current vlan tunnel info mapping.


This command changes vlan filter entry's global options.

the interface with which this vlan is associated. Only bridge devices are
supported for global options.

the VLAN ID that identifies the vlan.

turn multicast snooping for VLAN entry with VLAN ID on or off

enable or disable IGMP/MLD querier, ie sending of multicast queries by the
bridge. Default is disabled.

set the IGMP version. Default is 2.

set the MLD version. Default is 1.

set multicast last member count, ie the number of queries the bridge will send
before stopping forwarding a multicast group after a "leave" message has been
received. Default is 2.

interval between queries to find remaining members of a group, after a "leave"
message is received.

set the number of queries to send during startup phase. Default is 2.

interval between queries in the startup phase.

delay after which the bridge will leave a group, if no membership reports for
this group are received.

interval between queries sent by other routers. If no queries are seen after
this delay has passed, the bridge will start to send its own queries (as if
was enabled).

interval between queries sent by the bridge after the end of the startup
phase.

set the Max Response Time/Maximum Response Delay for IGMP/MLD queries sent by
the bridge.

associate the VLAN with the specified multiple spanning tree instance (MSTI).


This command displays the global VLAN options for each VLAN entry.

the interface only whose VLAN global options should be listed. Default is to
list all bridge interfaces.

the VLAN ID only whose global options should be listed. Default is to list all
vlans.


objects contain known VNI IDs for a dst metadata vxlan link.

The corresponding commands display vni filter entries, add new entries, and
delete old ones.


This command creates a new vni filter entry.

the interface with which this vni is associated.

the VNI ID that identifies the vni.

specifies the unicast destination IP address to use in outgoing packets when
the destination link layer address is not known in the VXLAN device forwarding
database. This parameter cannot be specified with the group.

specifies the multicast IP address to join for this VNI


This command removes an existing vni filter entry.

The arguments are the same as with


This command displays the current vni filter table.

With the option, the command displays per-vni traffic statistics.

shows vni filtering table associated with the vxlan device


The utility can monitor the state of devices and addresses continuously. This
option has a slightly different format.	 Namely, the command is the first in
the command line and then the object list follows:


is the list of object types that we want to monitor.  It may contain If no
argument is given, opens RTNETLINK, listens on it and dumps state changes in
the format described in previous sections.

If a file name is given, it does not listen on RTNETLINK, but opens the file
containing RTNETLINK messages saved in binary format and dumps them.

This command uses facilities added in Linux 3.0.

Although the forwarding table is maintained on a per-bridge device basis the
bridge device is not part of the syntax. This is a limitation of the
underlying netlink neighbour message protocol. When displaying the forwarding
table, entries for all bridges are displayed.  Add/delete/modify commands
determine the underlying bridge device based on the bridge to which the
corresponding ethernet device is attached.



Original Manpage by Stephen Hemminger


