bwrap - container setup utility bwrap [OPTION...] [COMMAND] bwrap is a
unprivileged low-level sandboxing tool (optionally setuid on older
distributions). You are unlikely to use it directly from the commandline,
although that is possible.  It works by creating a new, completely empty,
filesystem namespace where the root is on a tmpfs that is invisible from the
host, and which will be automatically cleaned up when the last process exits.
You can then use commandline options to construct the root filesystem and
process environment for the command to run in the namespace.  By default,
bwrap creates a new mount namespace for the sandbox. Optionally it also sets
up new user, ipc, pid, network and uts namespaces (but note the user namespace
is required if bwrap is not installed setuid root). The application in the
sandbox can be made to run with a different UID and GID.  If needed (e.g. when
using a PID namespace) bwrap is running a minimal pid 1 process in the sandbox
that is responsible for reaping zombies. It also detects when the initial
application process (pid 2) dies and reports its exit status back to the
original spawner. The pid 1 process exits to clean up the sandbox when there
are no other processes in the sandbox left.  When options are used multiple
times, the last option wins, unless otherwise specified.  General options:
--help Print help and exit --version Print version --args FD Parse
nul-separated arguments from the given file descriptor. This option can be
used multiple times to parse options from multiple sources.  --argv0 VALUE Set
argv[0] to the value VALUE before running the program --level-prefix Prefix
each line of diagnostic output with a numeric severity level enclosed in angle
brackets. The severity levels used are based on the constants used by
syslog(3): for example, <4> indicates a warning, because LOG_WARNING has
numeric value 4. Numbers smaller than 4 indicate fatal errors, and numbers
larger than 4 indicate informational messages. These prefixes can be parsed by
tools compatible with logger --prio-prefix (see logger(1)) or systemd-cat
--level-prefix=1 (see systemd-cat(1)).	Options related to kernel namespaces:
--unshare-user Create a new user namespace --unshare-user-try Create a new
user namespace if possible else skip it --unshare-ipc Create a new ipc
namespace --unshare-pid Create a new pid namespace --unshare-net Create a new
network namespace --unshare-uts Create a new uts namespace --unshare-cgroup
Create a new cgroup namespace --unshare-cgroup-try Create a new cgroup
namespace if possible else skip it --unshare-all Unshare all possible
namespaces. Currently equivalent with: --unshare-user-try --unshare-ipc
--unshare-pid --unshare-net --unshare-uts --unshare-cgroup-try --share-net
Retain the network namespace, overriding an earlier --unshare-all or
--unshare-net --userns FD Use an existing user namespace instead of creating a
new one. The namespace must fulfil the permission requirements for setns(),
which generally means that it must be a descendant of the currently active
user namespace, owned by the same user.

This is incompatible with --unshare-user, and doesn't work in the setuid
version of bubblewrap.	--userns2 FD After setting up the new namespace,
switch into the specified namespace. For this to work the specified namespace
must be a descendant of the user namespace used for the setup, so this is only
useful in combination with --userns.

This is useful because sometimes bubblewrap itself creates nested user
namespaces (to work around some kernel issues) and --userns2 can be used to
enter these.  --disable-userns Prevent the process in the sandbox from
creating further user namespaces, so that it cannot rearrange the filesystem
namespace or do other more complex namespace modification. This is currently
implemented by setting the user.max_user_namespaces sysctl to 1, and then
entering a nested user namespace which is unable to raise that limit in the
outer namespace. This option requires --unshare-user, and doesn't work in the
setuid version of bubblewrap.  --assert-userns-disabled Confirm that the
process in the sandbox has been prevented from creating further user
namespaces, but without taking any particular action to prevent that. For
example, this can be combined with --userns to check that the given user
namespace has already been set up to prevent the creation of further user
namespaces.  --pidns FD Use an existing pid namespace instead of creating one.
This is often used with --userns, because the pid namespace must be owned by
the same user namespace that bwrap uses.

Note that this can be combined with --unshare-pid, and in that case it means
that the sandbox will be in its own pid namespace, which is a child of the
passed in one.	--uid UID Use a custom user id in the sandbox (requires
--unshare-user) --gid GID Use a custom group id in the sandbox (requires
--unshare-user) --hostname HOSTNAME Use a custom hostname in the sandbox
(requires --unshare-uts) Options about environment setup: --chdir DIR Change
directory to DIR --setenv VAR VALUE Set an environment variable --unsetenv VAR
Unset an environment variable --clearenv Unset all environment variables,
except for PWD and any that are subsequently set by --setenv Options for
monitoring the sandbox from the outside: --lock-file DEST Take a lock on DEST
while the sandbox is running. This option can be used multiple times to take
locks on multiple files.  --sync-fd FD Keep this file descriptor open while
the sandbox is running Filesystem related options. These are all operations
that modify the filesystem directly, or mounts stuff in the filesystem. These
are applied in the order they are given as arguments.  Any missing parent
directories that are required to create a specified destination are
automatically created as needed. Their permissions are normally set to 0755
(rwxr-xr-x). However, if a --perms option is in effect, and it sets the
permissions for group or other to zero, then newly-created parent directories
will also have their corresponding permission set to zero.  --size modifies
the size of the created mount when preceding a --tmpfs action; --perms and
--size can be combined.	 --perms OCTAL This option does nothing on its own,
and must be followed by one of the options that it affects. It sets the
permissions for the next operation to OCTAL. Subsequent operations are not
affected: for example, --perms 0700 --tmpfs /a --tmpfs /b will mount /a with
permissions 0700, then return to the default permissions for /b. Note that
--perms and --size can be combined: --perms 0700 --size 10485760 --tmpfs /s
will apply permissions as well as a maximum size to the created tmpfs.	--size
BYTES This option does nothing on its own, and must be followed by --tmpfs. It
sets the size in bytes for the next tmpfs. For example, --size 10485760
--tmpfs /tmp will create a tmpfs at /tmp of size 10MiB. Subsequent operations
are not affected: for example, --size 10485760 --tmpfs /a --tmpfs /b will
mount /a with size 10MiB, then return to the default size for /b. Note that
--perms and --size can be combined: --size 10485760 --perms 0700 --tmpfs /s
will apply permissions as well as a maximum size to the created tmpfs.	--bind
SRC DEST Bind mount the host path SRC on DEST --bind-try SRC DEST Equal to
--bind but ignores non-existent SRC --dev-bind SRC DEST Bind mount the host
path SRC on DEST, allowing device access --dev-bind-try SRC DEST Equal to
--dev-bind but ignores non-existent SRC --ro-bind SRC DEST Bind mount the host
path SRC readonly on DEST --ro-bind-try SRC DEST Equal to --ro-bind but
ignores non-existent SRC --remount-ro DEST Remount the path DEST as readonly.
It works only on the specified mount point, without changing any other mount
point under the specified path --overlay-src SRC This option does nothing on
its own, and must be followed by one of the other overlay options. It
specifies a host path from which files should be read if they aren't present
in a higher layer.

This option can be used multiple times to provide multiple sources. The
sources are overlaid in the order given, with the first source on the command
line at the bottom of the stack: if a given path to be read exists in more
than one source, the file is read from the last such source specified.

(For readers familiar with overlayfs, note that this is the reverse of the
order used by the kernel's lowerdir mount option.) --overlay RWSRC WORKDIR
DEST --tmp-overlay DEST --ro-overlay DEST Use overlayfs to mount the host
paths specified by RWSRC and all immediately preceding --overlay-src on DEST.
DEST will contain the union of all the files in all the layers.

With --overlay all writes will go to RWSRC. Reads will come preferentially
from RWSRC, and then from any --overlay-src paths.  WORKDIR must be an empty
directory on the same filesystem as RWSRC, and is used internally by the
kernel.

With --tmp-overlay all writes will go to the tmpfs that hosts the sandbox
root, in a location not accessible from either the host or the child process.
Writes will therefore not be persisted across multiple runs.

With --ro-overlay the filesystem will be mounted read-only. This option
requires at least two --overlay-src to precede it.

None of these options are available in the setuid version of bubblewrap. Using
--ro-overlay or providing more than one --overlay-src requires a Linux kernel
version of 4.0 or later.

Due to limitations of overlayfs, no host directory given via --overlay-src or
--overlay may be an ancestor of another, after resolving symlinks. Depending
on version, the Linux kernel may or may not enforce this, but if not then
overlayfs's behavior is undefined.

For more information see the Overlay Filesystem documentation in the Linux
kernel at https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/filesystems/overlayfs.txt
--proc DEST Mount procfs on DEST --dev DEST Mount new devtmpfs on DEST --tmpfs
DEST Mount new tmpfs on DEST. If the previous option was --perms, it sets the
mode of the tmpfs. Otherwise, the tmpfs has mode 0755. If the previous option
was --size, it sets the size in bytes of the tmpfs. Otherwise, the tmpfs has
the default size.  --mqueue DEST Mount new mqueue on DEST --dir DEST Create a
directory at DEST. If the directory already exists, its permissions are
unmodified, ignoring --perms (use --chmod if the permissions of an existing
directory need to be changed). If the directory is newly created and the
previous option was --perms, it sets the mode of the directory. Otherwise,
newly-created directories have mode 0755.  --file FD DEST Copy from the file
descriptor FD to DEST. If the previous option was --perms, it sets the mode of
the new file. Otherwise, the file has mode 0666 (note that this is not the
same as --bind-data).  --bind-data FD DEST Copy from the file descriptor FD to
a file which is bind-mounted on DEST. If the previous option was --perms, it
sets the mode of the new file. Otherwise, the file has mode 0600 (note that
this is not the same as --file).  --ro-bind-data FD DEST Copy from the file
descriptor FD to a file which is bind-mounted read-only on DEST. If the
previous option was --perms, it sets the mode of the new file. Otherwise, the
file has mode 0600 (note that this is not the same as --file).	--symlink SRC
DEST Create a symlink at DEST with target SRC.

Since version 0.9.0, it is not considered to be an error if DEST already
exists as a symbolic link and its target is exactly SRC.

Before version 0.9.0, if DEST already existed, this would be treated as an
error (even if its target was identical to SRC).  --chmod OCTAL PATH Set the
permissions of PATH, which must already exist, to OCTAL.  Lockdown options:
--seccomp FD Load and use seccomp rules from FD. The rules need to be in the
form of a compiled cBPF program, as generated by seccomp_export_bpf. If this
option is given more than once, only the last one is used. Use
--add-seccomp-fd if multiple seccomp programs are needed.  --add-seccomp-fd FD
Load and use seccomp rules from FD. The rules need to be in the form of a
compiled cBPF program, as generated by seccomp_export_bpf. This option can be
repeated, in which case all the seccomp programs will be loaded in the order
given (note that the kernel will evaluate them in reverse order, so the last
program on the bwrap command-line is evaluated first). All of them, except
possibly the last, must allow use of the PR_SET_SECCOMP prctl. This option
cannot be combined with --seccomp.  --exec-label LABEL Exec Label from the
sandbox. On an SELinux system you can specify the SELinux context for the
sandbox process(s).  --file-label LABEL File label for temporary sandbox
content. On an SELinux system you can specify the SELinux context for the
sandbox content.  --block-fd FD Block the sandbox on reading from FD until
some data is available.	 --userns-block-fd FD Do not initialize the user
namespace but wait on FD until it is ready. This allow external processes
(like newuidmap/newgidmap) to setup the user namespace before it is used by
the sandbox process.  --info-fd FD Write information in JSON format about the
sandbox to FD.	--json-status-fd FD Multiple JSON documents are written to FD,
one per line ("JSON lines" format[1]). Each line is a single JSON object.
After bwrap has started the child process inside the sandbox, it writes an
object with a child-pid member to the --json-status-fd (this duplicates the
older --info-fd). The corresponding value is the process ID of the child
process in the pid namespace from which bwrap was run. If available, the
namespace IDs are also included in the object with the child-pid; again, this
duplicates the older --info-fd. When the child process inside the sandbox
exits, bwrap writes an object with an exit-code member, and then closes the
--json-status-fd. The value corresponding to exit-code is the exit status of
the child, in the usual shell encoding (n if it exited normally with status n,
or 128+n if it was killed by signal n). Other members may be added to those
objects in future versions of bwrap, and other JSON objects may be added
before or after the current objects, so readers must ignore members and
objects that they do not understand.  --new-session Create a new terminal
session for the sandbox (calls setsid()). This disconnects the sandbox from
the controlling terminal which means the sandbox can't for instance inject
input into the terminal.

Note: In a general sandbox, if you don't use --new-session, it is recommended
to use seccomp to disallow the TIOCSTI ioctl, otherwise the application can
feed keyboard input to the terminal which can e.g. lead to out-of-sandbox
command execution (see CVE-2017-5226).	--die-with-parent Ensures child
process (COMMAND) dies when bwrap's parent dies. Kills (SIGKILL) all bwrap
sandbox processes in sequence from parent to child including COMMAND process
when bwrap or bwrap's parent dies. See prctl, PR_SET_PDEATHSIG.	 --as-pid-1 Do
not create a process with PID=1 in the sandbox to reap child processes.
--cap-add CAP Add the specified capability CAP, e.g. CAP_DAC_READ_SEARCH, when
running as privileged user. It accepts the special value ALL to add all the
permitted caps.	 --cap-drop CAP Drop the specified capability when running as
privileged user. It accepts the special value ALL to drop all the caps. By
default no caps are left in the sandboxed process. The --cap-add and
--cap-drop options are processed in the order they are specified on the
command line. Please be careful to the order they are specified.  HOME Used as
the cwd in the sandbox if --chdir has not been explicitly specified and the
current cwd is not present inside the sandbox. The --setenv option can be used
to override the value that is used here.  The bwrap command returns the exit
status of the initial application process (pid 2 in the sandbox).  "JSON
lines" format https://jsonlines.org/


