bzmore, bzless - file perusal filter for crt viewing of bzip2 compressed text
[ name ...  ]
[ name ...  ] In the following description, and can be used interchangeably
with and is a filter which allows examination of compressed or plain text
files one screenful at a time on a soft-copy terminal.	works on files
compressed with and also on uncompressed files.	 If a file does not exist,
looks for a file of the same name with the addition of a .bz2 suffix.
normally pauses after each screenful, printing --More-- at the bottom of the
screen.	 If the user then types a carriage return, one more line is displayed.
If the user hits a space, another screenful is displayed.  Other possibilities
are enumerated later.  looks in the file to determine terminal
characteristics, and to determine the default window size.  On a terminal
capable of displaying 24 lines, the default window size is 22 lines.  Other
sequences which may be typed when pauses, and their effects, are as follows (i
is an optional integer argument, defaulting to 1) : display more lines, (or
another screenful if no argument is given) display 11 more lines (a
``scroll'').  If is given, then the scroll size is set to i.  same as ^D
(control-D) same as typing a space except that i, if present, becomes the new
window size.  Note that the window size reverts back to the default at the end
of the current file.  skip i lines and print a screenful of lines skip i
screenfuls and print a screenful of lines quit reading the current file; go on
to the next (if any) When the prompt --More--(Next file: is printed, this
command causes bzmore to exit.	When the prompt --More--(Next file: is
printed, this command causes bzmore to skip the next file and continue.
Display the current line number.  search for the i-th occurrence of the
regular expression expr. If the pattern is not found, goes on to the next file
(if any).  Otherwise, a screenful is displayed, starting two lines before the
place where the expression was found.  The user's erase and kill characters
may be used to edit the regular expression.  Erasing back past the first
column cancels the search command.  search for the i-th occurrence of the last
regular expression entered.  invoke a shell with command.  The character `!'
in "command" are replaced with the previous shell command.  The sequence "\!"
is replaced by "!".  quit reading the current file; go on to the next (if any)
(same as q or Q).  (dot) repeat the previous command.  The commands take
effect immediately, i.e., it is not necessary to type a carriage return.  Up
to the time when the command character itself is given, the user may hit the
line kill character to cancel the numerical argument being formed.  In
addition, the user may hit the erase character to redisplay the --More--
message.  At any time when output is being sent to the terminal, the user can
hit the quit key (normally control-\).	will stop sending output, and will
display the usual --More-- prompt.  The user may then enter one of the above
commands in the normal manner.	Unfortunately, some output is lost when this
is done, due to the fact that any characters waiting in the terminal's output
queue are flushed when the quit signal occurs.	The terminal is set to mode by
this program so that the output can be continuous.  What you type will thus
not show on your terminal, except for the / and !  commands.  If the standard
output is not a teletype, then acts just like except that a header is printed
before each file.  /etc/termcap		Terminal data base more(1), less(1),
bzip2(1), bzdiff(1), bzgrep(1)


