cal - display a calendar

cal [options] [[[day] month] year]

cal [options] [timestamp|monthname]

cal displays a simple calendar. If no arguments are specified, the current
month is displayed.

The month may be specified as a number (1-12), as a month name or as an
abbreviated month name according to the current locales.

Two different calendar systems are used, Gregorian and Julian. These are
nearly identical systems with Gregorian making a small adjustment to the
frequency of leap years; this facilitates improved synchronization with solar
events like the equinoxes. The Gregorian calendar reform was introduced in
1582, but its adoption continued up to 1923. By default cal uses the adoption
date of 3 Sept 1752. From that date forward the Gregorian calendar is
displayed; previous dates use the Julian calendar system. 11 days were removed
at the time of adoption to bring the calendar in sync with solar events. So
Sept 1752 has a mix of Julian and Gregorian dates by which the 2nd is followed
by the 14th (the 3rd through the 13th are absent).

Optionally, either the proleptic Gregorian calendar or the Julian calendar may
be used exclusively. See --reform below.

-1, --one Display single month output. (This is the default.)

-3, --three Display three months spanning the date.

-n , --months number Display number of months, starting from the month
containing the date.

-S, --span Display months spanning the date.

-s, --sunday Display Sunday as the first day of the week.

-m, --monday Display Monday as the first day of the week.

-v, --vertical Display using a vertical layout (aka ncal(1) mode).

--iso Display the proleptic Gregorian calendar exclusively. This option does
not affect week numbers and the first day of the week. See --reform below.

-j, --julian Use day-of-year numbering for all calendars. These are also
called ordinal days. Ordinal days range from 1 to 366. This option does not
switch from the Gregorian to the Julian calendar system, that is controlled by
the --reform option.

Sometimes Gregorian calendars using ordinal dates are referred to as Julian
calendars. This can be confusing due to the many date related conventions that
use Julian in their name: (ordinal) julian date, julian (calendar) date,
(astronomical) julian date, (modified) julian date, and more. This option is
named julian, because ordinal days are identified as julian by the POSIX
standard. However, be aware that cal also uses the Julian calendar system. See
DESCRIPTION above.

--reform val This option sets the adoption date of the Gregorian calendar
reform. Calendar dates previous to reform use the Julian calendar system.
Calendar dates after reform use the Gregorian calendar system. The argument
val can be:

•   1752 - sets 3 September 1752 as the reform date (default). This is when
the Gregorian calendar reform was adopted by the British Empire.

•   gregorian - display Gregorian calendars exclusively. This special
placeholder sets the reform date below the smallest year that cal can use;
meaning all calendar output uses the Gregorian calendar system. This is called
the proleptic Gregorian calendar, because dates prior to the calendar system’s
creation use extrapolated values.

•   iso - alias of gregorian. The ISO 8601 standard for the representation of
dates and times in information interchange requires using the proleptic
Gregorian calendar.

•   julian - display Julian calendars exclusively. This special placeholder
sets the reform date above the largest year that cal can use; meaning all
calendar output uses the Julian calendar system.

See DESCRIPTION above.

-y, --year Display a calendar for the whole year.

-Y, --twelve Display a calendar for the next twelve months.

-w, --week[=number] Display week numbers in the calendar according to the US
or ISO-8601 format. If a number is specified, the requested week will be
printed in the desired or current year. The number may be overwritten if day
and month are also specified.

See the NOTES section for more details.

--color[=when] Colorize the output. The optional argument when can be auto,
never or always. If the when argument is omitted, it defaults to auto. The
colors can be disabled; for the current built-in default see the --help
output. See also the COLORS section.

-c, --columns=columns Number of columns to use. auto uses as many as fit the
terminal.

-h, --help Display help text and exit.

-V, --version Display version and exit.

Single digits-only parameter (e.g., 'cal 2020') Specifies the year to be
displayed; note the year must be fully specified: cal 89 will not display a
calendar for 1989.

Single string parameter (e.g., 'cal tomorrow' or 'cal August') Specifies
timestamp or a month name (or abbreviated name) according to the current
locales.

The special placeholders are accepted when parsing timestamp, "now" may be
used to refer to the current time, "today", "yesterday", "tomorrow" refer to
of the current day, the day before or the next day, respectively.

The relative date specifications are also accepted, in this case "+" is
evaluated to the current time plus the specified time span. Correspondingly, a
time span that is prefixed with "-" is evaluated to the current time minus the
specified time span, for example '+2days'. Instead of prefixing the time span
with "+" or "-", it may also be suffixed with a space and the word "left" or
"ago" (for example '1 week ago').

Two parameters (e.g., 'cal 11 2020') Denote the month (1 - 12) and year.

Three parameters (e.g., 'cal 25 11 2020') Denote the day (1-31), month and
year, and the day will be highlighted if the calendar is displayed on a
terminal. If no parameters are specified, the current month’s calendar is
displayed.

A year starts on January 1. The first day of the week is determined by the
locale or the --sunday and --monday options.

The week numbering depends on the choice of the first day of the week. If it
is Sunday then the customary North American numbering is used, where 1 January
is in week number 1. If it is Monday (-m) then the ISO 8601 standard week
numbering is used, where the first Thursday is in week number 1.

The output colorization is implemented by terminal-colors.d(5)
functionality.	Implicit coloring can be disabled by an empty file

/etc/terminal-colors.d/cal.disable

for the cal command or for all tools by

/etc/terminal-colors.d/disable

Since version 2.41, the $NO_COLOR environment variable is also supported to
disable output colorization unless explicitly enabled by a command-line
option.

The user-specific $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/terminal-colors.d or
$HOME/.config/terminal-colors.d overrides the global setting.

Note that the output colorization may be enabled by default, and in this case
terminal-colors.d directories do not have to exist yet.

The logical color names supported by cal are:

today The current day.

weeknumber The week number requested by the --week=<number> command line
option.

weeks The number of the week.

header The header of a month.

workday Days that fall within the work-week.

weekend Days that fall outside the work-week.

For example:

echo -e 'weekend 35\ntoday 1;41\nheader yellow' >
$HOME/.config/terminal-colors.d/cal.scheme

A cal command appeared in Version 6 AT&T UNIX.

The default cal output uses 3 September 1752 as the Gregorian calendar reform
date. The historical reform dates for the other locales, including its
introduction in October 1582, are not implemented.

Alternative calendars, such as the Umm al-Qura, the Solar Hijri, the Ge’ez, or
the lunisolar Hindu, are not supported.

terminal-colors.d(5)

For bug reports, use the issue tracker
<https://github.com/util-linux/util-linux/issues>.

The cal command is part of the util-linux package which can be downloaded from
Linux Kernel Archive <https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/>.


