capsh - capability shell wrapper [OPTION]...  Linux capability support and use
can be explored and constrained with this tool. This tool provides a handy
wrapper for certain types of capability testing and environment creation. It
also provides some debugging features useful for summarizing capability state.
takes a number of optional arguments, acting on them in the order they are
provided. They are as follows: Display the list of commands supported by
Display prevailing capability and related state.  Display prevailing
capability state, 1e capabilities and IAB vector.  Execute with trailing
arguments. Note, you can use for specific commands.  Uses cap_launch(3) to
fork a child to execute the shell. When the child exits, capsh exits with the
status of the child or 1 in the case that the child was terminated by a
signal.	 Execute again with the remaining arguments. Useful for testing
behavior. Note, PATH is searched when the running was found via the shell's
PATH searching. If the occurs after a argument the PATH located binary may not
be resolve to the same binary as that running initially. This behavior is an
intended feature as it can complete the chroot transition.  Uses cap_launch(3)
to fork a child to re-execute capsh. When this child exits, capsh exits with
the status of the child or 1 in the case that the child was terminated by a
signal.	 Set the prevailing process capabilities to those specified by Where
is a text-representation of a capability `Set' as per Remove the listed
capabilities from the prevailing bounding set. The capabilities are a comma-
separated list of capabilities as recognized by the function. Use of this
feature requires that is operating with in its effective set.  Set the
inheritable set of capabilities for the current process to equal those
provided in the comma separated list. For this action to succeed, the
prevailing process should already have each of these capabilities in the union
of the current inheritable and permitted capability sets, or should be
operating with in its effective set.  Assume the identity of the named user.
That is, look up the user's UID and GID with and their group memberships with
and set them all using and Following this command, the effective capabilities
will be cleared, but the permitted set will not be, so the running program is
still privileged.  Display the prevailing libcap mode as guessed by the
function.  Force the program into a security mode. This is a set of securebits
and prevailing capability arrangement recommended for its pre-determined
security stance.  Lists all of the libcap modes supported by Confirm that the
prevailing mode is that specified in or exit with a status 1.  Force all UID
values to equal using the system call. This argument may require explicit
preparation of the effective set.  use the function to set the UID of the
current process. This performs all preparations for setting the UID without
dropping capabilities in the process. Following this command the prevailing
effective capabilities will be lowered.	 Exit with status 1 unless the current
UID equals Force all GID values to equal using the system call.	 Exit with
status 1 unless the current GIQ equals Set the supplementary groups to the
numerical list provided. The groups are set with the system call. See for a
more convenient way of doing this.  In a non-pure capability mode, the kernel
provides liberal privilege to the super-user. However, it is normally the case
that when the super-user changes UID to some lesser user, then capabilities
are dropped. For these situations, the kernel can permit the process to retain
its capabilities after a system call. This feature is known as support. The
way to activate it using this program is with this argument. Setting the value
to 1 will cause to be active. Setting it to 0 will cause keep-caps to
deactivate for the current process. In all cases, is deactivated when an is
performed. See for ways to disable this feature.  Set the security-bits for
the program.  This is done using the operation.	 The list of supported bits
and their meaning can be found in the header file. The program will list these
bits via the command.  The argument is expressed as a numeric bitmask, in any
of the formats permitted by An alternative to this bit-twiddling is embedded
in the commandline arguments.  Execute the system call with the new root-
directory (/) equal to This operation requires to be in effect.	 This command
causes the program to fork a child process for so many seconds. The child will
sleep that long and then exit with status 0. The purpose of this command is to
support exploring the way processes are killable in the face of capability
changes. See the command. Only one fork can be active at a time.  This
commands causes a child to be with the specified signal. The command then
waits for the child to exit.  If the exit status does not match the signal
being used to kill it, the program exits with status 1.	 Give a brief textual
description of what privileges the specified capability makes available to a
running program. Note, instead of cap_xxx, one can provide a decimal number
and capsh will look up the corresponding capability's description.  This
option changes the shell that is invoked when the argument == is encountered.
This option toggles the suppression of subsequent attempts to fixup --caps=
and --inh= arguments. That is, when the prevailing Effective flag does not
contain CAP_SETPCAP the to be raised Inheritable Flag values (in strict mode)
are limited to those in the Permitted set. The strict mode defaults to off.
Supplying this argument an even number of times restores this default
behavior.  Scan each of the textual descriptions of capabilities, known to
capsh, and display all descriptions that include phrase.  This is a
convenience feature. If you look at there are some capability related fields
of the following form:

CapInh:	  0000000000000000
CapPrm:	  0000003fffffffff
CapEff:	  0000003fffffffff
CapBnd:	  0000003fffffffff
CapAmb:	  0000000000000000

This option provides a quick way to decode a capability vector represented in
this hexadecimal form.	Here's an example that decodes the two lowest
capability bits:
$ capsh --decode=3
0x0000000000000003=cap_chown,cap_dac_override
As the kernel evolves, more capabilities are added. This option can be used to
verify the existence of a capability on the system. For example, will cause to
promptly exit with a status of 1 when run on kernel 2.6.27.  However, when run
on kernel 2.6.38 it will silently succeed.  Exit with status 1 unless the
vector has capability raised.  Performs a check to see if the running kernel
supports ambient capabilities. If not, exits with status 1.  Exit with status
1 unless the vector has capability raised.  Exit with status 1 unless the
vector has capability in its (default) non-blocked state.  Attempts to set the
IAB tuple of inheritable capability vectors.  The text conventions used for
xxx are those of and described in Adds the specified ambient capability to the
running process.  Removes the specified ambient capability from the running
process.  Drops all ambient capabilities from the running process.  Suppresses
overriding of the HOME and USER environment variables when a subsequent
argument is processed.	This argument is ignored unless it is the first one.
If present, it suppresses the capsh runtime check to confirm the running
libcap is recent enough that it can name all of the kernel supported
capability values.  Following successful execution, exits with status 0.
Following an error, immediately exits with status 1.  Written by Andrew G.
Morgan <morgan@kernel.org>.  Please report bugs via:
https://bugzilla.kernel.org/buglist.cgi?component=libcap&list_id=1090757 and


