catman - create or update the pre-formatted manual pages ...  is used to
create an up to date set of pre-formatted manual pages known as cat pages.
Cat pages are generally much faster to display than the original manual pages,
but require extra storage space.  The decision to support cat pages is that of
the local administrator, who must provide suitable directories to contain
them.

The options available to are the manual page hierarchies and sections to pre-
format.	 The default hierarchies are those specified as system hierarchies in
the man-db configuration file, and the default sections are either the colon-
delimited contents of the environment variable or the standard set compiled
into if is undefined.  Supplying with a set of whitespace-delimited section
names will override both of the above.

makes use of the database cache associated with each hierarchy to determine
which files need to be formatted.  Print debugging information.	 Specify an
alternate colon-delimited manual page hierarchy search path.  By default, this
is all paths indicated as system hierarchies in the man-db configuration file.
Use this user configuration file rather than the default of Print a help
message and exit.  Print a short usage message and exit.  Display version
information.  If is set, its value is a colon-delimited list of sections and
it is used to determine which manual sections to search and in what order.
The default is "1 1p 8 2 3 3p 3pm 4 5 6 7 9 0p n l p o 1x 2x 3x 4x 5x 6x 7x
8x", unless overridden by the directive in If is set, its value is interpreted
as the colon-delimited manual page hierarchy search path to use.

See the section of for the default behaviour and details of how this
environment variable is handled.  man-db configuration file.  A traditional
global database cache.	An alternate or FSSTND compliant global database
cache.
Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk).
Fabrizio Polacco (fpolacco@debian.org).
Colin Watson (cjwatson@debian.org).
https://gitlab.com/man-db/man-db/-/issues
https://savannah.nongnu.org/bugs/?group=man-db


