ccomps - connected components filter for graphs [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] decomposes
graphs into their connected components, printing the components to standard
output.	 The following options are supported: Do not induce edges in the
connected components.  No output graph is printed. The return value can be
used to check if the graph is connected or not.	 Only the connected components
are printed, as separate graphs.  Counts of nodes, edges and connected
components are printed.	 Sort components by size, with the largest first. This
is only effective if either -x or -X# is present.  Thus, -zX#0 will cause the
largest component to be printed.  Use clusters in computing components in
addition to normal edge connectivity. In essence, this gives the connected
components of the derived graph in which nodes top-level clusters and nodes in
the original graph. This maintains all subgraph structure within a component,
even if a subgraph does not contain any nodes.	Do not project subgraph
structure. Normally, if produces components as graphs distinct from the input
graph, it will define subgraphs which are projections of subgraphs of the
input graph onto the component. (If the projection is empty, no subgraph is
produced.)  If this flag is set, the component contains only the relevant
nodes and edges.  Prints only the component containing the node node_name, if
any.  Prints only components in the given range of indices. In the first form,
only the component whose index is start, if any, is printed.  In the second
form, each component whose index is at least start is printed. In the last
form, only those components whose indices are in the range [Istart,last] are
printed.  Thus, the flag -x is equivalent to -X#0-.  Prints only components in
the given range of sizes. In the first form, only a component whose size is
min, if any, is printed.  In the second form, each component whose size is at
least min is printed. In the last form, only those components whose sizes are
in the range [Imin,max] are printed.  If specified, each graph will be written
to a different file with the names derived from outfile. In particular, if
both -o and -x flags are used, then each connected component is written to a
different file. If outfile does not have a suffix, the first file will have
the name outfile; then next outfile_1, then next outfile_2, and so on.	If
outfile has a suffix, i.e., has the form base.sfx, then the files will be
named base.sfx, base_1.sfx, base_2.sfx, etc.  By default, each input graph is
printed, with each connected component given as a subgraph whose name is a
concatenation of the name of the input graph, the string "_cc_" and the number
of the component.  The following operand is supported: Names of files
containing 1 or more graphs in dot format.  If no operand is specified, the
standard input will be used.  Unless used to extract a single connected
component, returns if all the input graphs are connected; and non-zero if any
graph has multiple components, or any error occurred.  If just extracting a
single component, returns on success and non-zero if an error occurred.	 It is
possible, though unlikely, that the names used for connected components and
their subgraphs may conflict with existing subgraph names.  Stephen C. North
<north@research.att.com>
Emden R. Gansner <erg@research.att.com> gc(1), dot(1), gvpr(1), gvcolor(1),
acyclic(1), sccmap(1), tred(1), libgraph(3)


