cd-paranoia - an audio CD reading utility which includes extra data
verification features

retrieves audio tracks from CDDA capable CD-ROM drives.	 The data can be saved
to a file or directed to standard output in WAV, AIFF, AIFF-C or raw format.
Most ATAPI, SCSI and several proprietary CD-ROM drive makes are supported; can
determine if the target drive is CDDA capable.	In addition to simple reading,
adds extra-robust data verification, synchronization, error handling and
scratch reconstruction capability.  This version uses the libcdio library for
interaction with a CD-ROM drive. The jitter and error correction however are
the same as used in Xiph's cdparanoia.

Run and log a complete analysis of drive caching, timing and reading behavior;
verifies that cdparanoia is correctly modelling a specific drive's cache and
read behavior. Implies -vQL.

Be absurdly verbose about the autosensing and reading process. Good for setup
and debugging.

Do not print any progress or error information during the reading process.

Force output of progress information to stderr (for wrapper scripts).

Print the program version and quit.

Perform CD-ROM drive autosense, query and print the CD-ROM table of contents,
then quit.

Print a brief synopsis of usage and options.

Save result summary to file.

Save detailed device autosense and debugging output to a file.

Output headerless data as raw 16 bit PCM data with interleaved samples in host
byte order.  To force little or big endian byte order, use or as described
below.

Output headerless data as raw 16 bit PCM data with interleaved samples in LSB
first byte order.

Output headerless data as raw 16 bit PCM data with interleaved samples in MSB
first byte order.

Output data in Microsoft RIFF WAV format (note that WAV data is always LSB
first byte order).

Output data in Apple AIFF format (note that AIFC data is always in MSB first
byte order).

Output data in uncompressed Apple AIFF-C format (note that AIFF-C data is
always in MSB first byte order).


Cdda2wav-style batch output flag; cd-paranoia will split the output into
multiple files at track boundaries.  Output file names are prepended with
'track#.'

Some CD-ROM drives misreport their endianness (or do not report it at all);
it's possible that cd-paranoia will guess wrong.  Use to force cd-paranoia to
treat the drive as a little endian device.

As above but force cd-paranoia to treat the drive as a big endian device.

Force the interface backend to do atomic reads of sectors per read.  This
number can be misleading; the kernel will often split read requests into
multiple atomic reads (the automated Paranoia code is aware of this) or allow
reads only wihin a restricted size range.

Force the interface backend to read from rather than the first readable CD-ROM
drive it finds containing a CD-DA disc.	 This can be used to specify devices
of any valid interface type (ATAPI, SCSI or proprietary).

This option is an alias for and is retained for compatibility.

Use this option explicitly to set the read rate of the CD drive (where
supported).  This can reduce underruns on machines with slow disks, or which
are low on memory.

Use this option to force the entire disc LBA addressing to shift by the given
amount; the value is added to the beginning offsets in the TOC.	 This can be
used to shift track boundaries for the whole disc manually on sector
granularity.  The next option does something similar...

Some drives (usually random Toshibas) report the actual track beginning offset
values in the TOC, but then treat the beginning of track 1 index 1 as sector 0
for all read operations.  This results in every track seeming to start too
late (losing a bit of the beginning and catching a bit of the next track).  -T
accounts for this behavior.  Note that this option will cause cd-paranoia to
attempt to read sectors before or past the known user data area of the disc,
resulting in read errors at disc edges on most drives and possibly even hard
lockups on some buggy hardware.

Some CD-ROM/CD-R drives will add an offset to the position on reading audio
data. This is usually around 500-700 audio samples (ca. 1/75 second) on
reading. So when cd-paranoia queries a specific sector, it might not receive
exactly that sector, but shifted by some amount.  Use this option to force the
entire disc to shift sample position output by the given amount; This can be
used to shift track boundaries for the whole disc manually on sample
granularity. Note that if you are ripping something including the ending of
the CD (e.g. the entire disk), this option will cause cd-paranoia to attempt
to read partial sectors before or past the known user data area, probably
causing read errors on most drives and possibly even hard lockups on some
buggy hardware.

Force overreading into the lead-out portion of the disc. This option is only
applicable when using the +.B -O +option with a positive sample offset value.
Many drives are not capable of reading into this portion of the disc and
attempting to do so on those drives will produce read errors and possibly hard
lockups.

Disable data verification and correction features.  When using -Z, cd-paranoia
reads data exactly as would cdda2wav with an overlap setting of zero.  This
option implies that is active.

Do not accept any skips; retry forever if needed.  An optional maximum number
of retries can be specified; for comparison, default without -z is currently
20.

Disables intra-read data verification; only overlap checking at read
boundaries is performed. It can wedge if errors occur in the attempted overlap
area. Not recommended.

If the read skips due to imperfect data, a scratch, whatever, abort reading
this track.  If output is to a file, delete the partially completed file.

Simulate CD-reading errors. This is used in regression testing, but other uses
might be to see how well a CD-ROM performs under (simulated) CD degradation.
mask specifies the artificial kinds of errors to introduced; "or"-ing values
from the selection below will simulate the kind of specified failure.
     0x10  - Simulate under-run reading


  :-) Normal operation, low/no jitter
  :-| Normal operation, considerable jitter
  :-/ Read drift
  :-P Unreported loss of streaming in atomic read operation
  8-| Finding read problems at same point during reread; hard to correct
  :-0 SCSI/ATAPI transport error
  :-( Scratch detected
  ;-( Gave up trying to perform a correction
  8-X Aborted read due to known, uncorrectable error
  :^D Finished extracting

<space> No corrections needed
   - Jitter correction required
   + Unreported loss of streaming/other error in read
   !  Errors found after stage 1 correction; the drive is making the same
error through multiple re-reads, and cd-paranoia is having trouble detecting
them.
   e SCSI/ATAPI transport error (corrected)
   V Uncorrected error/skip


The span argument specifies which track, tracks or subsections of tracks to
read.  This argument is required.  Unless the span is a simple number, it's
generally a good idea to quote the span argument to protect it from the shell.
The span argument may be a simple track number or an offset/span
specification.	The syntax of an offset/span takes the rough form:
1[ww:xx:yy.zz]-2[aa:bb:cc.dd] Here, 1 and 2 are track numbers; the numbers in
brackets provide a finer grained offset within a particular track.
[aa:bb:cc.dd] is in hours/minutes/seconds/sectors format. Zero fields need not
be specified: [::20], [:20], [20], [20.], etc, would be interpreted as twenty
seconds, [10:] would be ten minutes, [.30] would be thirty sectors (75 sectors
per second).  When only a single offset is supplied, it is interpreted as a
starting offset and ripping will continue to the end of the track.  If a
single offset is preceeded or followed by a hyphen, the implicit missing
offset is taken to be the start or end of the disc, respectively. Thus:

Specifies ripping from track 1, second 20, sector 35 to the end of track 1.
Specifies ripping from 1[20.35] to the end of the disc Specifies ripping from
the beginning of the disc up to (and including) track 2 Specifies ripping from
the beginning of the disc up to 2:[30.35] Specifies ripping from the beginning
of track 2 to the end of track 4.  Again, don't forget to protect square
brackets and preceeding hyphens from the shell.


A few examples, protected from the shell: Query only with exhaustive search
for a drive and full reporting of autosense:
       cd-paranoia -vsQ Extract an entire disc, putting each track in a
separate file:
       cd-paranoia -B Extract from track 1, time 0:30.12 to 1:10.00:
       cd-paranoia "1[:30.12]-1[1:10]" Extract from the beginning of the disc
up to track 3:
       cd-paranoia -- "-3" The "--" above is to distinguish "-3" from an
option flag.

The output file argument is optional; if it is not specified, cd-paranoia will
output samples to one of depending on whether is the implicit default).	 The
output file argument of specifies standard output; all data formats may be
piped.

cd-paranoia sprang from and once drew heavily from the interface of Heiko
Eissfeldt's (heiko@colossus.escape.de) 'cdda2wav' package. cd-paranoia would
not have happened without it.  Joerg Schilling has also contributed SCSI
expertise through his generic SCSI transport library.  Monty <monty@xiph.org>
Cdparanoia's homepage may be found at: https://www.xiph.org/paranoia/ Revised
for use with libcdio by Rocky <rocky@gnu.org> The libcdio homepage may be
found at: https://www.gnu.org/software/libcdio/


