chage - change user password expiry information chage [options] LOGIN The
chage command changes password expiration information for a user. It sets the
number of days between password changes and the date of the last password
change. This information is used by the system to determine when the user must
change their password.	The options which apply to the chage command are: -d,
--lastday LAST_DAY Set the date when the password was last changed. The value
can be specified as a date in the YYYY-MM-DD format or as a number of days
since 1970-01-01. The date is interpreted using the UTC timezone. If the
LAST_DAY is set to 0, the user is forced to change their password upon the
next login.

Passing the value -1 or an empty string as the LAST_DAY clears the value and
removes the password change requirement.  -E, --expiredate EXPIRE_DATE Set the
date on which the user's password expires and their account will no longer be
accessible. The value can be specified as a date in the YYYY-MM-DD format or
as a number of days since 1970-01-01. The date is interpreted using the UTC
timezone. If the password expires, the user must contact the system
administrator to regain access to the system.

For example, the following command sets an account to expire in 180 days:

	 chage -E $(date -d +180days +%F)


Passing the value -1 or an empty string as the EXPIRE_DATE removes the account
expiration date.  -h, --help Display help message and exit.  -i, --iso8601
When printing dates, use YYYY-MM-DD format.  -I, --inactive INACTIVE Set the
number of days of inactivity after a password has expired before the account
is locked. The INACTIVE option is the number of days of inactivity. A user
whose account is locked must contact the system administrator before being
able to use the system again.

Passing the number -1 as the INACTIVE will remove an account's inactivity.
-l, --list Show account aging information.  -m, --mindays MIN_DAYS Set the
minimum number of days between password changes to MIN_DAYS. A value of zero
for this field indicates that the user may change their password at any time.
-M, --maxdays MAX_DAYS Set the maximum number of days during which a password
is valid. When MAX_DAYS plus LAST_DAY is less than the current day, the user
will be required to change their password before being able to use their
account. This occurrence can be planned for in advance by use of the -W
option, which provides the user with advance warning.

Passing the number -1 as MAX_DAYS will remove checking a password's validity.
-R, --root CHROOT_DIR Apply changes in the CHROOT_DIR directory and use the
configuration files from the CHROOT_DIR directory. Only absolute paths are
supported.  -P, --prefix PREFIX_DIR Apply changes to configuration files under
the root filesystem found under the directory PREFIX_DIR. This option does not
chroot and is intended for preparing a cross-compilation target. Some
limitations: NIS and LDAP users/groups are not verified. No SELINUX support.
-W, --warndays WARN_DAYS Set the number of days of warning before a password
change is required. The WARN_DAYS option is the number of days prior to the
password expiring that a user will be warned their password is about to
expire.	 If none of the options are selected, chage operates in an interactive
fashion, prompting the user with the current values for all of the fields.
Enter the new value to change the field, or leave the line blank to use the
current value. The current value is displayed between a pair of [ ] marks.
The chage program requires a shadow password file to be available.  The chage
program will report only the information from the shadow password file. This
implies that configuration from other sources (e.g. LDAP or empty password
hash field from the passwd file) that affect the user's login will not be
shown in the chage output.  The chage program will also not report any
inconsistency between the shadow and passwd files (e.g. missing x in the
passwd file). The pwck can be used to check for this kind of inconsistencies.
The chage command is restricted to the root user, except for the -l option,
which may be used by an unprivileged user to determine when their password or
account is due to expire.  The following configuration variables in
/etc/login.defs change the behavior of this tool: /etc/passwd User account
information.  /etc/shadow Secure user account information.  The chage command
exits with the following values: 0 success 1 permission denied 2 invalid
command syntax 15 can't find the shadow password file passwd(5), shadow(5).


