chcpu - configure CPUs

chcpu -c|-d|-e|-g cpu-list

chcpu -p mode

chcpu -r|-h|-V

chcpu can modify the state of CPUs. It can enable or disable CPUs, scan for
new CPUs, change the CPU dispatching mode of the underlying hypervisor, and
request CPUs from the hypervisor (configure) or return CPUs to the hypervisor
(deconfigure).

Some options have a cpu-list argument. Use this argument to specify a
comma-separated list of CPUs. The list can contain individual CPU addresses or
ranges of addresses. For example, 0,5,7,9-11 makes the command applicable to
the CPUs with the addresses 0, 5, 7, 9, 10, and 11.

-c, --configure cpu-list Configure the specified CPUs. Configuring a CPU means
that the hypervisor takes a CPU from the CPU pool and assigns it to the
virtual hardware on which your kernel runs.

-d, --disable cpu-list Disable the specified CPUs. Disabling a CPU means that
the kernel sets it offline.

-e, --enable cpu-list Enable the specified CPUs. Enabling a CPU means that the
kernel sets it online. A CPU must be configured, see -c, before it can be
enabled.

-g, --deconfigure cpu-list Deconfigure the specified CPUs. Deconfiguring a CPU
means that the hypervisor removes the CPU from the virtual hardware on which
the Linux instance runs and returns it to the CPU pool. A CPU must be offline,
see -d, before it can be deconfigured.

chcpu -g is not supported on IBM z/VM, CPUs are always in a configured state.

if chcpu -g is supported, any disabled CPUs should be deconfigured to inform
the hypervisor that these CPUs won’t be used, avoiding potential performance
penalties.

-p, --dispatch mode Set the CPU dispatching mode (polarization). This option
has an effect only if your hardware architecture and hypervisor support CPU
polarization. Available modes are:

horizontal The workload is spread across all available CPUs.

vertical The workload is concentrated on few CPUs.

-r, --rescan Trigger a rescan of CPUs. After a rescan, the Linux kernel
recognizes the new CPUs. Use this option on systems that do not automatically
detect newly attached CPUs.

-h, --help Display help text and exit.

-V, --version Display version and exit.

chcpu has the following exit status values:

0 success

1 failure

64 partial success

Heiko Carstens <heiko.carstens@de.ibm.com>

Copyright IBM Corp. 2011

lscpu(1)

For bug reports, use the issue tracker
<https://github.com/util-linux/util-linux/issues>.

The chcpu command is part of the util-linux package which can be downloaded
from Linux Kernel Archive
<https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/>.


