column - columnate lists

column [options] [file ...]

The column utility formats its input into multiple columns. It supports three
modes:

fill columns before rows This is the default mode (required for backwards
compatibility).

fill rows before columns This mode is enabled with the -x, --fillrows option.

create a table Determine the number of columns the input contains and create a
table. This mode is enabled with the -t, --table option. Output is aligned to
the terminal width in interactive mode and 80 columns in non-interactive mode
(see --output-width for more details). Custom formatting can be applied by
using various --table-\* options.

Input is taken from file, or otherwise from standard input. Empty lines are
ignored and all invalid multibyte sequences are encoded with the x<hex>
convention.

The argument columns for --table-\* options is a comma separated list of user
supplied names, defined with --table-column name1,name2,..., indices of
columns, as they appear in the input, beginning with 1, or names, defined by a
--table-columns attribute.  It’s possible to mix names and indices. The
special placeholder '0' (e.g. -R0) may be used to specify all columns and '-1'
(e.g. -R -1) to specify the last visible column.  It’s possible to use ranges
like '1-5' when addressing columns by indices.

-J, --json Use JSON output format to print the table. The option
--table-columns is required and the option --table-name is recommended.

-c, --output-width width Output is formatted to a width specified as a number
of characters. The original name of this option is --columns; this name is
deprecated since v2.30. Note that input longer than width is not truncated by
default. The default is the terminal width and 80 columns in non-interactive
mode. The column headers are never truncated.

The placeholder "unlimited" (or 0) can be used to prevent restricting output
width. This is recommended for example when redirecting output to a file.

-d, --table-noheadings Omit printing the header. This option allows the use of
user supplied column names on the command line, but keeps the header hidden
when printing the table.

-o, --output-separator string Column delimiter for table output (default is
two spaces).

-s, --separator separators Possible input item delimiters (default is
whitespace).

-S, --use-spaces number When not in table mode, use whitespaces instead of
tabulators to align the columns. This option specifies the minimum number of
whitespaces that separate two columns.

-t, --table Determine the number of columns the input contains and create a
table. Columns are by default delimited with whitespace, or with characters
supplied using the --output-separator option. Table output is useful for
pretty-printing.

-C, --table-column attributes Define a column with a comma separated list of
column attributes.  This option can be used more than once, every use defines
a single column.  Attributes replace some of --table- options. For example,
--table-column name=FOO,right defines a column where text is aligned to right.
The option is mutually exclusive to --table-columns.

Supported attributes are:

name=string Column name.

trunc Truncate column text when necessary. The same as --table-truncate.

right Right align text. The same as --table-right.

width=number Column width. It’s used only as a hint. To force it, specify the
strictwidth attribute as well.

strictwidth Strictly follow column width= setting.

noextreme Ignore unusually long cell width. See --table-noextreme for more
details.

wrap Allow using a multi-line cell for long text if necessary. See
--table-wrap for more details.

hide Don’t print the column. See --table-hide for more details.

json=type Define column type for JSON output. Supported types are string,
number and boolean.

-N, --table-columns names Specify column names with a comma separated list.
The names are used for the table header and column addressing in option
arguments. See also --table-column.

-l, --table-columns-limit number Specify maximum number of input columns. The
last column will contain all remaining line data if the limit is smaller than
the number of the columns in the input data.

-R, --table-right columns Right align text in specified columns.

-T, --table-truncate columns Specify columns where text can be truncated when
necessary, otherwise very long table entries may be printed on multiple lines.

-E, --table-noextreme columns Specify columns where is possible to ignore
unusually long (longer than average) cells when calculate column width. The
option has impact to the width calculation and table formatting, but the
printed text is not affected.

The option is used for the last visible column by default.

-e, --table-header-repeat Print header line for each page.

-W, --table-wrap columns Specify columns where multi-line cells can be used
for long text.

-H, --table-hide columns Don’t print specified columns. The special
placeholder '-' may be used to hide all unnamed columns (see --table-columns).

-O, --table-order columns Specify the output column order.

-n, --table-name name Specify the table name used for JSON output. The default
is "table".

-m, --table-maxout Fill all available space on output.

-L, --keep-empty-lines Preserve whitespace-only lines in the input. The
default is to ignore all empty lines. This option’s original name was
--table-empty-lines, but has since been deprecated because it gives the false
impression that the option only applies to table mode.

-r, --tree column Specify the column to use for a tree-like output. Note that
the circular dependencies and other anomalies in child and parent relation are
silently ignored.

-i, --tree-id column Specify the column that contains each line’s unique child
IDs for a child-parent relation.

-p, --tree-parent column Specify the column that contains each line’s parent
IDs for a child-parent relation.

-x, --fillrows Fill rows before filling columns.

-h, --help Display help text and exit.

-V, --version Display version and exit.

The environment variable COLUMNS is used to determine the size of the screen
if no other information is available.

The column command appeared in 4.3BSD-Reno.

Version 2.23 changed the -s option to be non-greedy, for example:

printf "a:b:c\n1::3\n" | column -t -s ':'

Old output:

a  b  c
1  3

New output (since util-linux 2.23):

a  b  c
1     3

Historical versions of this tool indicated that "rows are filled before
columns" by default, and that the -x option reverses this. This wording did
not reflect the actual behavior, and it has since been corrected (see above).
Other implementations of column may continue to use the older documentation,
but the behavior should be identical in any case.

Print fstab with a header line and align numbers to the right:

sed 's/#.*//' /etc/fstab | column --table --table-columns SOURCE,TARGET,TYPE,OPTIONS,FREQ,PASS --table-right FREQ,PASS

Print fstab and hide unnamed columns:

sed 's/#.*//' /etc/fstab | column --table --table-columns SOURCE,TARGET,TYPE --table-hide -

Print a tree:

echo -e '1 0 A\n2 1 AA\n3 1 AB\n4 2 AAA\n5 2 AAB' | column --tree-id 1 --tree-parent 2 --tree 3
1  0  A
2  1  |-AA
4  2  | |-AAA
5  2  | `-AAB
3  1  `-AB

colrm(1), ls(1), paste(1), sort(1)

For bug reports, use the issue tracker
<https://github.com/util-linux/util-linux/issues>.

The column command is part of the util-linux package which can be downloaded
from Linux Kernel Archive
<https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/>.


