dc - an arbitrary precision calculator dc [-V] [--version] [-h] [--help]
   [-e scriptexpression] [--expression=scriptexpression]
   [-f scriptfile] [--file=scriptfile]
   [file ...] dc is a reverse-polish desk calculator which supports unlimited
precision arithmetic.  It also allows you to define and call macros.  Normally
dc reads from the standard input; if any command arguments are given to it,
they are filenames, and dc reads and executes the contents of the files before
reading from standard input.  All normal output is to standard output; all
error output is to standard error.  A reverse-polish calculator stores numbers
on a stack.  Entering a number pushes it on the stack.	Arithmetic operations
pop arguments off the stack and push the results.  To enter a number in type
the digits to and through to represent the values zero through fifteen,
(regardless of the current input radix), and optionally including a single
radix point.  Exponential notation is not supported.  To enter a negative
number, begin the number with ``_''.  ``-'' cannot be used for this, as it is
a binary operator for subtraction instead.  To enter two numbers in
succession, separate them with spaces or newlines.  These have no meaning as
commands.  dc may be invoked with the following command-line options: Print
out the version of dc that is being run and a copyright notice, then exit.
Print a usage message briefly summarizing these command-line options and the
bug-reporting address, then exit.  Add the commands in to the set of commands
to be run while processing the input.  Add the commands contained in the file
to the set of commands to be run while processing the input.  Limit recursion
to a depth of at most (Mainly useful for debugging.)  If any command-line
parameters remain after processing the above, these parameters are interpreted
as the names of input files to be processed.  A file name of refers to the
standard input stream.	The standard input will processed if no script files
or expressions are specified.  Printing Commands Prints the value on the top
of the stack, without altering the stack.  A newline is printed after the
value.	Prints the value on the top of the stack, popping it off, and does not
print a newline after.	Pops off the value on top of the stack.	 If it is a
string, it is simply printed without a trailing newline.  Otherwise it is a
number, and the integer portion of its absolute value is printed out as a
"base (UCHAR_MAX+1)" byte stream.  Assuming that (UCHAR_MAX+1) is 256 (as it
is on most machines with 8-bit bytes), the sequence KSK0k1/_1Ss [ls*]Sxd0>x
[256~Ssd0<x]dsxxsx[q]Sq[Lsd0>qaPlxx] dsxxsx0sqLqsxLxLK+k could also accomplish
this function.	(Much of the complexity of the above native-dc code is due to
the ~ computing the characters backwards, and the desire to ensure that all
registers wind up back in their original states.)  Prints the entire contents
of the stack without altering anything.	 This is a good command to use if you
are lost or want to figure out what the effect of some command has been.
Arithmetic Pops two values off the stack, adds them, and pushes the result.
The precision of the result is determined only by the values of the arguments,
and is enough to be exact.  Pops two values, subtracts the first one popped
from the second one popped, and pushes the result.  Pops two values,
multiplies them, and pushes the result.	 The number of fraction digits in the
result depends on the current precision value and the number of fraction
digits in the two arguments.  Pops two values, divides the second one popped
by the first one popped, and pushes the result.	 The number of fraction digits
is specified by the precision value.  Pops two values, computes the remainder
of the division that the command would do, and pushes that.  The value
computed is the same as that computed by the sequence Sd dld/ Ld*- .  Pops two
values, divides the second one popped by the first one popped.	The quotient
is pushed first, and the remainder is pushed next.  The number of fraction
digits used in the division is specified by the precision value.  (The
sequence SdSn lnld/ LnLd% could also accomplish this function, with slightly
different error checking.)  Pops two values and exponentiates, using the first
value popped as the exponent and the second popped as the base.	 The fraction
part of the exponent is ignored.  The precision value specifies the number of
fraction digits in the result.	Pops three values and computes a modular
exponentiation.	 The first value popped is used as the reduction modulus; this
value must be a non-zero number, and should be an integer.  The second popped
is used as the exponent; this value must be a non-negative number, and any
fractional part of this exponent will be ignored.  The third value popped is
the base which gets exponentiated, which should be an integer.	For small
integers this is like the sequence Sm^Lm%, but, unlike ^, this command will
work with arbitrarily large exponents.	Pops one value, computes its square
root, and pushes that.	The maximum of the precision value and the precision
of the argument is used to determine the number of fraction digits in the
result.	 Most arithmetic operations are affected by the ``precision value'',
which you can set with the command.  The default precision value is zero,
which means that all arithmetic except for addition and subtraction produces
integer results.  Stack Control Clears the stack, rendering it empty.
Duplicates the value on the top of the stack, pushing another copy of it.
Thus, ``4d*p'' computes 4 squared and prints it.  Reverses the order of
(swaps) the top two values on the stack.  (This can also be accomplished with
the sequence SaSbLaLb.)	 Pops the top-of-stack as an integer Cyclically
rotates the top items on the updated stack.  If is positive, then the rotation
direction will make the topmost element the second-from top; if is negative,
then the rotation will make the topmost element the element from the top.  If
the stack depth is less than then the entire stack is rotated (in the
appropriate direction), without any error being reported.  Registers dc
provides at least 256 memory registers, each named by a single character.  You
can store a number or a string in a register and retrieve it later.  Pop the
value off the top of the stack and store it into register Copy the value in
register and push it onto the stack.  The value 0 is retrieved if the register
is uninitialized.  This does not alter the contents of Each register also
contains its own stack.	 The current register value is the top of the
register's stack.  Pop the value off the top of the (main) stack and push it
onto the stack of register The previous value of the register becomes
inaccessible.  Pop the value off the top of register stack and push it onto
the main stack.	 The previous value in register stack, if any, is now
accessible via the command.  Parameters dc has three parameters that control
its operation: the precision, the input radix, and the output radix.  The
precision specifies the number of fraction digits to keep in the result of
most arithmetic operations.  The input radix controls the interpretation of
numbers typed in; all numbers typed in use this radix.	The output radix is
used for printing numbers.  The input and output radices are separate
parameters; you can make them unequal, which can be useful or confusing.  The
input radix must be between 2 and 16 inclusive.	 The output radix must be at
least 2.  The precision must be zero or greater.  The precision is always
measured in decimal digits, regardless of the current input or output radix.
Pops the value off the top of the stack and uses it to set the input radix.
Pops the value off the top of the stack and uses it to set the output radix.
Pops the value off the top of the stack and uses it to set the precision.
Pushes the current input radix on the stack.  Pushes the current output radix
on the stack.  Pushes the current precision on the stack.  Strings dc has a
limited ability to operate on strings as well as on numbers; the only things
you can do with strings are print them and execute them as macros (which means
that the contents of the string are processed as dc commands).	All registers
and the stack can hold strings, and dc always knows whether any given object
is a string or a number.  Some commands such as arithmetic operations demand
numbers as arguments and print errors if given strings.	 Other commands can
accept either a number or a string; for example, the command can accept either
and prints the object according to its type.  Makes a string containing
(contained between balanced and characters), and pushes it on the stack.  For
example, prints the characters (with no newline).  The top-of-stack is popped.
If it was a number, then the low-order byte of this number is converted into a
string and pushed onto the stack.  Otherwise the top-of-stack was a string,
and the first character of that string is pushed back.	  Note: this command
is being deprecated; see for details.  If you use the command and think it
should remain a part of GNU dc, file a bug report requesting its retention.
Pops a value off the stack and executes it as a macro.	Normally it should be
a string; if it is a number, it is simply pushed back onto the stack.  For
example, executes the macro which pushes on the stack and prints on a separate
line.  Macros are most often stored in registers; stores a macro to print into
register and invokes this macro.  Pops two values off the stack and compares
them assuming they are numbers, executing the contents of register as a macro
if the original top-of-stack is greater.  Thus, will invoke register contents
and will not.  Similar but invokes the macro if the original top-of-stack is
not greater than (less than or equal to) what was the second-to-top.  Similar
but invokes the macro if the original top-of-stack is less.  Similar but
invokes the macro if the original top-of-stack is not less than (greater than
or equal to) what was the second-to-top.  Similar but invokes the macro if the
two numbers popped are equal.  Similar but invokes the macro if the two
numbers popped are not equal.  Reads a line from the terminal and executes it.
This command allows a macro to request input from the user.  exits from a
macro and also from the macro which invoked it.	 If called from the top level,
or from a macro which was called directly from the top level, the command will
cause dc to exit.  Pops a value off the stack and uses it as a count of levels
of macro execution to be exited.  Thus, exits three levels.  The command will
never cause dc to exit.	 Status Inquiry Pops a value off the stack, calculates
the number of decimal digits it has (or number of characters, if it is a
string) and pushes that number.	 The digit count for a number does include any
leading zeros, even if those appear to the right of the radix point.  Pops a
value off the stack, calculates the number of fraction digits it has, and
pushes that number.  For a string, the value pushed is 0.  Pushes the current
stack depth: the number of objects on the stack before the execution of the
command.  Miscellaneous Will run the rest of the line as a system command.
Note that parsing of the !<, !=, and !> commands take precedence, so if you
want to run a command starting with <, =, or > you will need to add a space
after the !.  Will interpret the rest of the line as a comment.	 Will pop the
top two values off of the stack.  The old second-to-top value will be stored
in the array indexed by the old top-of-stack value.  Pops the top-of-stack and
uses it as an index into the array The selected value is then pushed onto the
stack.	Note that each stacked instance of a register consists of both its
simple scalar value (whether a number or a string) and an array of the same
name.  Thus 1 0:x 0Sx 2 0:x Lx 0;xp will print 1, because the 2 was stored at
index 0 in an instance of the array x which was later popped, re-exposing the
instance of x that is holding a 1 at index 0.  ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
Determines the column at which numeric output is split; the default value is
70.  If set to ``0'' then line-splitting is disabled and each output line will
be as long as necessary to represent the number.  Sets a prompt to use when dc
is expecting interactive input on stdin.  BUGS Email bug reports to SEE ALSO
More complete documentation is available in dc.info, which may (depending on
your local installation) be available by invoking ``info dc''.


