desktop-file-install, desktop-file-edit - Installation and edition of desktop
files The desktop-file-install program is a tool to install, and optionally
edit, desktop files. The desktop-file-edit program is a tool to edit a desktop
file. They are mostly useful for developers and packagers.  Various options
are available to edit the desktop files. The edit options can be specified
more than once and will be processed in the same order as the options passed
to the program.	 desktop-file-install and desktop-file-edit will always try to
validate the resulting desktop file. A failure to validate might lead to the
abortion of the installation of the desktop files.  The list of registered
categories and desktop environments is defined in the Menu specification:
http://freedesktop.org/wiki/Specifications/menu-spec.  The following options
are supported: Install desktop files to the DIR directory.  Set the
permissions of the destination files to MODE.  Add a vendor prefix to the
desktop files. If a file already has this prefix, nothing happens; else, the
file will be named VENDOR-FILE. For example: if VENDOR is freedesktop.org and
FILE is specification.desktop, the result file will be freedesktop.org-
specification.desktop.	Delete the source desktop files, leaving only the
target files.  Effectively "renames" the desktop files.	 Rebuild the MIME
types application database after installing the desktop files. See update-
desktop-database(1) for information about this database.  The following edit
options are supported: Set the KEY key to the value passed to the next --set-
value option. A matching --set-value option is mandatory.  Set the key
specified with the previous --set-key option to VALUE.	A matching --set-key
option is mandatory.  Set the name (key Name) to NAME. If a name was already
set, it will be overridden. Localizations of the old name will be removed.
Copy the value of the Name key to the GenericName key. Note that a desktop
file requires a Name key to be valid, so this option will always have an
effect.	 Set the generic name (key GenericName) to GENERIC-NAME. If a generic
name was already set, it will be overridden. Localizations of the old generic
name will be removed.  Copy the value of the GenericName key to the Name key,
if the GenericName key is present.  Set the comment (key Comment) to COMMENT.
If a comment was already set, it will be overridden. Localizations of the old
comment will be removed.  Set the icon (key Icon) to ICON. If an icon was
already set, it will be overridden. Localizations of the old icon will be
removed.  Add CATEGORY to the list of categories (key Categories). If CATEGORY
was already present in the list, this operation is a no-op. A non-registered
category should be prefixed with X-.  Remove CATEGORY from the list of
categories (key Categories). If CATEGORY was not present in the list, this
operation is a no-op.  Add MIME-TYPE to the list of MIME types (key MimeType).
If MIME-TYPE was already present in the list, this operation is a no-op.
Remove MIME-TYPE from the list of MIME types (key MimeType).  If MIME-TYPE was
not present in the list, this operation is a no-op.  Add ENVIRONMENT to the
list of desktop environments where the desktop files should be displayed (key
OnlyShowIn). If ENVIRONMENT was already present in the list, this operation is
a no-op. A non-registered desktop environment should be prefixed with X-. Note
that an empty OnlyShowIn key in a desktop file means that the desktop file
will be displayed in all environments.	Remove ENVIRONMENT from the list of
desktop environments where the desktop files should be displayed (key
OnlyShowIn). If ENVIRONMENT was not present in the list, this operation is a
no-op.	Add ENVIRONMENT to the list of desktop environments where the desktop
files should not be displayed (key NotShowIn). If ENVIRONMENT was already
present in the list, this operation is a no-op. A non-registered desktop
environment should be prefixed with X-. Note that an empty NotShowIn key in a
desktop file means that the desktop file will be displayed in all
environments.  Remove ENVIRONMENT from the list of desktop environments where
the desktop files should not be displayed (key NotShowIn). If ENVIRONMENT was
not present in the list, this operation is a no-op.  Remove the KEY key from
the desktop files, if present.	Some environment variables change the behavior
of desktop-file-install: This variable can be used as an alternative to the
--vendor option. If the --vendor option is used, this environment variable
will be ignored.  This variable can be used as an alternative to the --dir
option. If the --dir option is used, this environment variable will be
ignored.  This variable is set when building RPM packages. If the --dir option
and the DESKTOP_FILE_INSTALL_DIR environment variable are not used, it will
automatically be prepended to the default install directory to install the
desktop files appropriately when building packages.  If you find bugs in the
desktop-file-install program, please report these on
https://bugs.freedesktop.org.


