- GnuPG's network access daemon

Since version 2.1 of GnuPG, dirmngr takes care of accessing the OpenPGP
keyservers.  As with previous versions it is also used as a server for
managing and downloading certificate revocation lists (CRLs) for X.509
certificates, downloading X.509 certificates, and providing access to OCSP
providers.  Dirmngr is invoked internally by gpg, gpgsm, or via the
gpg-connect-agent tool.






Commands are not distinguished from options except for the fact that only one
command is allowed.

Print the program version and licensing information.  Note that you cannot
abbreviate this command.

Print a usage message summarizing the most useful command-line options.	 Note
that you cannot abbreviate this command.

Print a list of all available options and commands.  Note that you cannot
abbreviate this command.

Run in server mode and wait for commands on the stdin.	The default mode is to
create a socket and listen for commands there.	This is only used for testing.

Run in background daemon mode and listen for commands on a socket.  This is
the way dirmngr is started on demand by the other GnuPG components.  To force
starting dirmngr it is in general best to use gpgconf --launch dirmngr.

Run in the foreground, sending logs to stderr, and listening on file
descriptor 3, which must already be bound to a listening socket.  This option
is deprecated and not supported on Windows.

List the contents of the CRL cache on stdout. This is probably only useful for
debugging purposes.

This command requires a filename as additional argument, and it will make
Dirmngr try to import the CRL in file into it's cache.	Note, that this is
only possible if Dirmngr is able to retrieve the CA's certificate directly by
its own means.	In general it is better to use gpgsm's --call-dirmngr loadcrl
filename command so that gpgsm can help dirmngr.

This command requires an URL as additional argument, and it will make dirmngr
try to retrieve and import the CRL from that url into it's cache.  This is
mainly useful for debugging purposes.  The dirmngr-client provides the same
feature for a running dirmngr.

This commands shuts down an running instance of Dirmngr.  This command has
currently no effect.

This command removes all CRLs from Dirmngr's cache.  Client requests will thus
trigger reading of fresh CRLs.




Note that all long options with the exception of --options and --homedir may
also be given in the configuration file after stripping off the two leading
dashes.


Reads configuration from file instead of from the default per-user
configuration file.  The default configuration file is named ‘dirmngr.conf’
and expected in the home directory.

Set the name of the home directory to dir.  This option is only effective when
used on the command line.  The default is the directory named ‘.gnupg’
directly below the home directory of the user unless the environment variable
GNUPGHOME has been set in which case its value will be used.  Many kinds of
data are stored within this directory.


Outputs additional information while running.  You can increase the verbosity
by giving several verbose commands to dirmngr, such as -vv.


Append all logging output to file.  This is very helpful in seeing what the
agent actually does.  Use ‘socket://’ to log to socket.

Set compatibility flags to work around certain problems or to emulate bugs.
The flags are given as a comma separated list of flag names and are OR-ed
together.  The special flag "none" clears the list and allows one to start
over with an empty list.  To get a list of available flags the sole word
"help" can be used.

This option is only useful for testing; it sets the system time back or forth
to epoch which is the number of seconds elapsed since the year 1970.
Alternatively epoch may be given as a full ISO time string (e.g.
"20070924T154812").

Select the debug level for investigating problems.  level may be a numeric
value or by a keyword:

No debugging at all.  A value of less than 1 may be used instead of the
keyword.  Some basic debug messages.  A value between 1 and 2 may be used
instead of the keyword.	 More verbose debug messages.  A value between 3 and 5
may be used instead of the keyword.  Even more detailed messages.  A value
between 6 and 8 may be used instead of the keyword.  All of the debug messages
you can get. A value greater than 8 may be used instead of the keyword.	 The
creation of hash tracing files is only enabled if the keyword is used.

How these messages are mapped to the actual debugging flags is not specified
and may change with newer releases of this program. They are however carefully
selected to best aid in debugging.

Set debug flags.  All flags are or-ed and flags may be given in C syntax (e.g.
0x0042) or as a comma separated list of flag names.  To get a list of all
supported flags the single word "help" can be used.  This option is only
useful for debugging and the behavior may change at any time without notice.

Same as --debug=0xffffffff

Enable debugging of the TLS layer at level.  The details of the debug level
depend on the used TLS library and are not set in stone.

When running in server mode, wait n seconds before entering the actual
processing loop and print the pid.  This gives time to attach a debugger.

On some platforms dirmngr is able to detect the removal of its socket file and
shutdown itself.  This option disable this self-test for debugging purposes.

Format the info output in daemon mode for use with the standard Bourne shell
respective the C-shell. The default is to guess it based on the environment
variable SHELL which is in almost all cases sufficient.

Enabling this option forces loading of expired CRLs; this is only useful for
debugging.

The option --use-tor switches Dirmngr and thus GnuPG into ``Tor mode'' to
route all network access via Tor (an anonymity network).  Certain other
features are disabled in this mode.  The effect of --use-tor cannot be
overridden by any other command or even by reloading dirmngr.  The use of
--no-use-tor disables the use of Tor.  The default is to use Tor if it is
available on startup or after reloading dirmngr.  The test on the availability
of Tor is done by trying to connect to a SOCKS proxy at either port 9050 or
9150; if another type of proxy is listening on one of these ports, you should
use --no-use-tor.

This option forces the use of the system's standard DNS resolver code.	This
is mainly used for debugging.  Note that on Windows a standard resolver is not
used and all DNS access will return the error ``Not Implemented'' if this
option is used.	 Using this together with enabled Tor mode returns the error
``Not Enabled''.

When possible use a recursive resolver instead of a stub resolver.

Set the timeout for the DNS resolver to N seconds.  The default are 30
seconds.

Set the timeout for HTTP and generic TCP connection attempts to N seconds.
The value set with the quick variant is used when the --quick option has been
given to certain Assuan commands.  The quick value is capped at the value of
the regular connect timeout.  The default values are 15 and 2 seconds.	Note
that the timeout values are for each connection attempt; the connection code
will attempt to connect all addresses listed for a server.

Set the size of the queue for pending connections.  The default is 64.

Allow Dirmngr to connect to https://versions.gnupg.org to get the list of
current software versions.  If this option is enabled the list is retrieved in
case the local copy does not exist or is older than 5 to 7 days.  See the
option --query-swdb of the command gpgconf for more details.  Note, that
regardless of this option a version check can always be triggered using this
command:

       gpg-connect-agent --dirmngr 'loadswdb --force' /bye


Use name as your keyserver.  This is the server that gpg communicates with to
receive keys, send keys, and search for keys.  The format of the name is a
URI: `scheme:[//]keyservername[:port]' The scheme is the type of keyserver:
"hkp" for the HTTP (or compatible) keyservers or "ldap" for the LDAP
keyservers. Note that your particular installation of GnuPG may have other
keyserver types available as well. Keyserver schemes are case-insensitive.
After the keyserver name, optional keyserver configuration options may be
provided.  These are the same as the --keyserver-options of gpg, but apply
only to this particular keyserver.

Some keyservers synchronize with each other, so there is not always a need to
send keys to more than one server. Some keyservers use round robin DNS to give
a different keyserver each time you use it.

If exactly two keyservers are configured and only one is a Tor hidden service
(.onion), Dirmngr selects the keyserver to use depending on whether Tor is
locally running or not.	 The check for a running Tor is done for each new
connection.

If no keyserver is explicitly configured, dirmngr will use the built-in
default of https://keyserver.ubuntu.com.  To avoid the use of a default
keyserver the value none can be used.

Windows users with a keyserver running on their Active Directory may use the
short form ldap:/// for name to access this directory.

For accessing anonymous LDAP keyservers name is in general just a
ldaps://ldap.example.com.  A BaseDN parameter should never be specified.  If
authentication is required things are more complicated and two methods are
available:

The modern method (since version 2.2.28) is to use the very same syntax as
used with the option --ldapserver.  Please see over there for details; here is
an example:

       keyserver ldap:ldap.example.com::uid=USERNAME,ou=GnuPG Users,
       dc=example,dc=com:PASSWORD::starttls

       The other method is to use a full URL for name; for example:

       keyserver ldaps://ldap.example.com/????bindname=uid=USERNAME
       %2Cou=GnuPG%20Users%2Cdc=example%2Cdc=com,password=PASSWORD

       Put this all on one line without any spaces and keep the '%2C'
       as given.  Replace USERNAME, PASSWORD, and the 'dc' parts
       according to the instructions received from your LDAP
       administrator.  Note that only simple authentication
       (i.e. cleartext passwords) is supported and thus using ldaps is
       strongly suggested (since 2.2.28 "ldaps" defaults to port 389
       and uses STARTTLS).  On Windows authentication via AD can be
       requested by adding gpgNtds=1 after the fourth question
       mark instead of the bindname and password parameter.



In ``Tor mode'' Dirmngr uses a public resolver via Tor to resolve DNS names.
If the default public resolver, which is 8.8.8.8, shall not be used a
different one can be given using this option.  Note that a numerical IP
address must be given (IPv6 or IPv4) and that no error checking is done for
ipaddr.

Disable the use of all IPv4 or IPv6 addresses.

Entirely disables the use of LDAP.

Disable the use of HTTP to fetch CRLs.	This also disables OCSP requests as a
side-effect.  HTTP access to keyservers and to other files will still work.
This is a legacy option from a time before CRL distribution points became
common; it is better to use the explicit option --ignore-http-dp if the goal
is to avoid fetching CRLs via HTTP.

When looking for the location of a CRL, the to be tested certificate usually
contains so called CRL Distribution Point (DP) entries which are URLs
describing the way to access the CRL.  The first found DP entry is used.  With
this option all entries using the HTTP scheme are ignored when looking for a
suitable DP.

This is similar to --ignore-http-dp but ignores entries using the LDAP scheme.
Both options may be combined resulting in ignoring DPs entirely.

Ignore all OCSP URLs contained in the certificate.  The effect is to force the
use of the default responder.

If the environment variable ‘http_proxy’ has been set, use its value to access
HTTP servers.  If on Windows the option is used but the environment variable
is not set, the proxy settings are taken from the system.

Use host and port to access HTTP servers.  The use of this option overrides
the environment variable ‘http_proxy’ regardless whether --honor-http-proxy
has been set.


Use host and port to connect to LDAP servers.  If port is omitted, port 389
(standard LDAP port) is used.  This overrides any specified host and port part
in a LDAP URL and will also be used if host and port have been omitted from
the URL.

Never use anything else but the LDAP "proxy" as configured with --ldap-proxy.
Usually dirmngr tries to use other configured LDAP server if the connection
using the "proxy" failed.


Read the list of LDAP servers to consult for CRLs and X.509 certificates from
file instead of the default per-user ldap server list file. The default value
for file is ‘dirmngr_ldapservers.conf’.

This server list file contains one LDAP server per line in the format

hostname:port:username:password:base_dn:flags

Lines starting with a  ‘#’ are comments.

Note that as usual all strings entered are expected to be UTF-8 encoded.
Obviously this will lead to problems if the password has originally been
encoded as Latin-1.  There is no other solution here than to put such a
password in the binary encoding into the file (i.e. non-ascii characters won't
show up readable). ([The gpgconf tool might be helpful for frontends as it
enables editing this configuration file using percent-escaped strings.])


This is an alternative way to specify LDAP servers for CRL and X.509
certificate retrieval.	If this option is used the servers configured in
‘dirmngr_ldapservers.conf’ (or the file given by --ldapserverlist-file) are
cleared.  Note that ‘dirmngr_ldapservers.conf’ is not read again by a reload
signal. However, --ldapserver options are read again.

spec is either a proper LDAP URL or a colon delimited list of the form

hostname:port:username:password:base_dn:flags:

with an optional prefix of ldap: (but without the two slashes which would turn
this into a proper LDAP URL).  flags is a list of one or more comma delimited
keywords: The default: Do not use a TLS secured connection at all; the default
port is 389.  Use STARTTLS to secure the connection; the default port is 389.
Tunnel LDAP through a TLS connection; the default port is 636.	On Windows
authenticate the LDAP connection using the Active Directory with the current
user.  On Windows use only the A or AAAA record when resolving the LDAP server
name.

Note that in an URL style specification the scheme ldaps:// refers to STARTTLS
and _not_ to LDAP-over-TLS.


Specify the number of seconds to wait for an LDAP query before timing out.
The default are 15 seconds.  0 will never timeout.


This option makes dirmngr add any servers it discovers when validating
certificates against CRLs to the internal list of servers to consult for
certificates and CRLs.	This option should in general not be used.

This option might be useful when trying to validate a certificate that has a
CRL distribution point that points to a server that is not already listed in
the ldapserverlist.  Dirmngr will always go to this server and try to download
the CRL, but chances are high that the certificate used to sign the CRL is
located on the same server. So if dirmngr doesn't add that new server to list,
it will often not be able to verify the signature of the CRL unless the
--add-servers option is used.

Caveat emptor: Using this option may enable denial-of-service attacks and leak
search requests to unknown third parties.  This is because arbitrary servers
are added to the internal list of LDAP servers which in turn is used for all
unspecific LDAP queries as well as a fallback for queries which did not return
a result.


This option enables OCSP support if requested by the client.

OCSP requests are rejected by default because they may violate the privacy of
the user; for example it is possible to track the time when a user is reading
a mail.


Use url as the default OCSP Responder if the certificate does not contain
information about an assigned responder.  Note, that --ocsp-signer must also
be set to a valid certificate.

Use the certificate with the fingerprint fpr to check the responses of the
default OCSP Responder.	 Alternatively a filename can be given in which case
the response is expected to be signed by one of the certificates described in
that file.  Any argument which contains a slash, dot or tilde is considered a
filename.  Usual filename expansion takes place: A tilde at the start followed
by a slash is replaced by the content of ‘HOME’, no slash at start describes a
relative filename which will be searched at the home directory.	 To make sure
that the file is searched in the home directory, either prepend the name with
"./" or use a name which contains a dot.

If a response has been signed by a certificate described by these fingerprints
no further check upon the validity of this certificate is done.

The format of the FILE is a list of SHA-1 fingerprint, one per line with
optional colons between the bytes.  Empty lines and lines prefix with a hash
mark are ignored.


The number of seconds a skew between the OCSP responder and them local clock
is accepted.  Default is 600 (10 minutes).

Seconds a response is at maximum considered valid after the time given in the
thisUpdate field.  Default is 7776000 (90 days).

The number of seconds an OCSP response is considered valid after the time
given in the NEXT_UPDATE datum.	 Default is 10800 (3 hours).


Do not return more that n items in one query.  The default is 10.

Add oid to the list of ignored certificate extensions.	The oid is expected to
be in dotted decimal form, like 2.5.29.3.  This option may be used more than
once.  Critical flagged certificate extensions matching one of the OIDs in the
list are treated as if they are actually handled and thus the certificate
won't be rejected due to an unknown critical extension.	 Use this option with
care because extensions are usually flagged as critical for a reason.

Add oid to the list of ignored CRL extensions.	The oid is expected to be in
dotted decimal form.  Critical flagged CRL extensions matching one of the OIDs
in the list are treated as if they are actually handled and thus the
certificate won't be rejected due to an unknown critical extension.  Use this
option with care because extensions are usually flagged as critical for a
reason.

Entirely ignore certificates with the fingerprint fpr.	As an alternative to
the fingerprint a filename can be given in which case all certificates
described in that file are ignored.  Any argument which contains a slash, dot
or tilde is considered a filename.  Usual filename expansion takes place: A
tilde at the start followed by a slash is replaced by the content of ‘HOME’,
no slash at start describes a relative filename which will be searched at the
home directory.	 To make sure that the file is searched in the home directory,
either prepend the name with "./" or use a name which contains a dot.  The
format of such a file is a list of SHA-1 fingerprint, one per line with
optional colons between the bytes.  Empty lines and lines prefixed with a hash
mark are ignored.

This option is useful as a quick workaround to exclude certain certificates
from the system store.


Use the root certificates in file for verification of the TLS certificates
used with hkps (keyserver access over TLS).  If the file is in PEM format a
suffix of .pem is expected for file.  This option may be given multiple times
to add more root certificates.	Tilde expansion is supported.

If no hkp-cacert directive is present, dirmngr will use the system CAs.





Here is an example on how to show dirmngr's internal table of OpenPGP
keyserver addresses.  The output is intended for debugging purposes and not
part of a defined API.

  gpg-connect-agent --dirmngr 'keyserver --hosttable' /bye

To inhibit the use of a particular host you have noticed in one of the
keyserver pools, you may use

 gpg-connect-agent --dirmngr 'keyserver --dead pgpkeys.bnd.de' /bye

The description of the keyserver command can be printed using

 gpg-connect-agent --dirmngr 'help keyserver' /bye





Dirmngr makes use of several directories when running in daemon mode: There
are a few configuration files to control the operation of dirmngr.  By default
they may all be found in the current home directory (see: [option --homedir]).


This is the standard configuration file read by dirmngr on startup.  It may
contain any valid long option; the leading two dashes may not be entered and
the option may not be abbreviated.  This file is also read after a SIGHUP
however not all options will actually have an effect.  This default name may
be changed on the command line (see: [option --options]).  You should backup
this file.

This directory should be filled with certificates of Root CAs you are trusting
in checking the CRLs and signing OCSP Responses.

Usually these are the same certificates you use with the applications making
use of dirmngr.	 It is expected that each of these certificate files contain
exactly one DER encoded certificate in a file with the suffix ‘.crt’ or
‘.der’.	 dirmngr reads those certificates on startup and when given a SIGHUP.
Certificates which are not readable or do not make up a proper X.509
certificate are ignored; see the log file for details.

Applications using dirmngr (e.g. gpgsm) can request these certificates to
complete a trust chain in the same way as with the extra-certs directory (see
below).

Note that for OCSP responses the certificate specified using the option
--ocsp-signer is always considered valid to sign OCSP requests.

This directory may contain extra certificates which are preloaded into the
internal cache on startup. Applications using dirmngr (e.g. gpgsm) can request
cached certificates to complete a trust chain.	This is convenient in cases
you have a couple intermediate CA certificates or certificates usually used to
sign OCSP responses.  These certificates are first tried before going out to
the net to look for them.  These certificates must also be DER encoded and
suffixed with ‘.crt’ or ‘.der’.

This directory is used to store cached CRLs.  The ‘crls.d’ part will be
created by dirmngr if it does not exists but you need to make sure that the
upper directory exists.


Several options control the use of trusted certificates for TLS and CRLs.
Here is an Overview on the use and origin of those Root CA certificates:


These System root certificates are used by:  FIXME

The origin of the system provided certificates depends on the platform.	 On
Windows all certificates from the Windows System Stores ROOT and CA are used.

On other platforms the certificates are read from the first file found form
this list: ‘/etc/ssl/ca-bundle.pem’, ‘/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt’,
‘/etc/pki/tls/cert.pem’, ‘/usr/local/share/certs/ca-root-nss.crt’,
‘/etc/ssl/cert.pem’.


The GnuPG specific certificates stored in the directory
‘/etc/gnupg/trusted-certs’ are only used to validate CRLs.



For accessing the OpenPGP keyservers the only certificates used are those set
with the configuration option hkp-cacert.


This is usually only one certificate read from the file
‘/usr/share/gnupg/gnupg/sks-keyservers.netCA.pem’.  If this certificate exists
it is used to access the special keyservers hkps.pool.sks-keyservers.net (or
‘hkps://keys.gnupg.net’).


Please note that gpgsm accepts Root CA certificates for its own purposes only
if they are listed in its file ‘trustlist.txt’.	 dirmngr does not make use of
this list - except FIXME.



To be able to see diagnostics it is often useful to put at least the following
lines into the configuration file ‘~/gnupg/dirmngr.conf’:

log-file ~/dirmngr.log
verbose

You may want to check the log file to see whether all desired root CA
certificates are correctly loaded.

To be able to perform OCSP requests you probably want to add the line:

allow-ocsp

To make sure that new options are read or that after the installation of a new
GnuPG versions the right dirmngr version is running, you should kill an
existing dirmngr so that a new instance is started as needed by the other
components:

gpgconf --kill dirmngr

Direct interfaction with the dirmngr is possible by using the command

gpg-connect-agent --dirmngr

Enter HELP at the prompt to see a list of commands and enter HELP followed by
a command name to get help on that command.





A running dirmngr may be controlled by signals, i.e. using the kill command to
send a signal to the process.

Here is a list of supported signals:


This signal flushes all internally cached CRLs as well as any cached
certificates.  Then the certificate cache is reinitialized as on startup.
Options are re-read from the configuration file.  Instead of sending this
signal it is better to use
gpgconf --reload dirmngr

Shuts down the process but waits until all current requests are fulfilled.  If
the process has received 3 of these signals and requests are still pending, a
shutdown is forced.  You may also use
gpgconf --kill dirmngr
instead of this signal

Shuts down the process immediately.


This prints some caching statistics to the log file.





gpgsm(1), dirmngr-client(1)

The full documentation for this tool is maintained as a Texinfo manual.	 If
GnuPG and the info program are properly installed at your site, the command

info gnupg

should give you access to the complete manual including a menu structure and
an index.




