dmfilemapd — device-mapper filemap monitoring daemon The dmfilemapd daemon
monitors groups of dmstats(8) regions that correspond to the extents of a
file, adding and removing regions to reflect the changing state of the file
on-disk.  The daemon is normally launched automatically by the dmstats create
command, but can be run manually, either to create a new daemon where one did
not previously exist, or to change the options previously used, by killing the
existing daemon and starting a new one.	 Specify the file descriptor number
for the file to be monitored.  The file descriptor must reference a regular
file, open for reading, in a local file system that supports the FIEMAP ioctl,
and that returns data describing the physical location of extents.

The process that executes dmfilemapd is responsible for opening the file
descriptor that is handed to the daemon.  The dmstats group identifier of the
group that dmfilemapd should update. The group must exist and it should
correspond to a set of regions created by a previous filemap operation.	 The
absolute path to the file being monitored, at the time that it was opened. The
use of abs_path by the daemon differs, depending on the filemap following mode
in use; see MODES and the mode option for more information.  The filemap
monitoring mode of the daemon.	Use either (DM_FILEMAP_FOLLOW_INODE), or
(DM_FILEMAP_FOLLOW_PATH), to enable follow-inode or follow-path mode
respectively.
If set to 1, disable forking and allow the daemon to run in the foreground.
Control daemon logging. If set to zero, the daemon will close all stdio
streams and run silently. If verbose is a number between 1 and 3, stdio will
be retained and the daemon will log messages to stdout and stderr that match
the specified verbosity level.	The file map monitoring daemon can monitor
files in two distinct ways: the mode affects the behaviour of the daemon when
a file under monitoring is renamed or unlinked, and the conditions which cause
the daemon to terminate.  In both modes, the daemon will always shut down when
the group being monitored is deleted.  The daemon follows the inode of the
file, as it was at the time the daemon started. The file descriptor
referencing the file is kept open at all times, and the daemon will exit when
it detects that the file has been unlinked and it is the last holder of a
reference to the file.

This mode is useful if the file is expected to be renamed, or moved within the
file system, while it is being monitored.  The daemon follows the path that
was given on the daemon command line. The file descriptor referencing the file
is re-opened on each iteration of the daemon, and the daemon will exit if no
file exists at this location (a tolerance is allowed so that a brief delay
between removal and replacement is permitted).

This mode is useful if the file is updated by unlinking the original and
placing a new file at the same path.  The daemon attempts to maintain good
synchronization between the file extents and the regions contained in the
group, however, since the daemon can only react to new allocations once they
have been written, there are inevitably some IO events that cannot be counted
when a file is growing, particularly if the file is being extended by a single
thread writing beyond EOF (for example, the program).  There is a further loss
of events in that there is currently no way to atomically resize a dmstats
region and preserve its current counter values. This affects files when they
grow by extending the final extent, rather than allocating a new extent: any
events that had accumulated in the region between any prior operation and the
resize are lost.  File mapping is currently most effective in cases where the
majority of IO does not trigger extent allocation. Future updates may address
these limitations when kernel support is available.  Normally the daemon is
started automatically by the dmstats create or update_filemap commands but it
can be run manually for debugging or testing purposes.	Start the daemon in
the background, in follow-path mode
Start the daemon in follow-inode mode, disable forking and enable verbose
logging
Starting dmfilemapd with fd=3, group_id=0 mode=inode, path=/var/tmp/data
dm version   [ opencount flush ]   [16384] (*1)
dm info	  (253:0) [ opencount flush ]	[16384] (*1)
dm message   (253:0) [ opencount flush ]  @stats_list dmstats [16384] (*1)
Read alias 'data' from aux_data
Found group_id 0: alias="data"
dm_stats_walk_init: initialized flags to 4000000000000
starting stats walk with   GROUP
exiting _filemap_monitor_get_events() with deleted=0, check=0
Waiting for check interval
Bryn M. Reeves LVM2 resource page:
Device-mapper resource page:


