
hostname - show or set the system's host name
domainname - show or set the system's NIS/YP domain name
ypdomainname - show or set the system's NIS/YP domain name
nisdomainname - show or set the system's NIS/YP domain name
dnsdomainname - show the system's DNS domain name


is used to display the system's DNS name, and to display or set its hostname
or NIS domain name.

When called without any arguments, the program displays the current names:
will print the name of the system as returned by the function.	will print the
NIS domainname of the system.  uses the function, while and use the will print
the domain part of the FQDN (Fully Qualified Domain Name). The complete FQDN
of the system is returned with (but see the warnings in section below).

The function is used to get the hostname.  When the is called will be called.
The difference in and is that is network aware, so it consults and to decide
whether to read information in or

When called with one argument or with the option, the commands set the host
name or the NIS/YP domain name.	 uses the function, while all of the three and
use Note, that this is effective only until the next reboot.  Edit
/etc/hostname for permanent change.  Note, that only the super-user can change
the names.  It is not possible to set the FQDN or the DNS domain name with the
command (see below).  The host name is usually set once at system startup
(normally by reading the contents of a file which contains the host name, e.g.

The FQDN (Fully Qualified Domain Name) of the system is the name that the
returns for the host name, such as, It is usually the hostname followed by the
DNS domain name (the part after the first dot).	 You can check the FQDN using
or the domain name using You cannot change the FQDN with or The recommended
method of setting the FQDN is to make the hostname be an alias for the fully
qualified name using DNS, or NIS. For example, if the hostname was "ursula",
one might have a line in which reads 127.0.1.1	  ursula.example.com ursula
Technically: The FQDN is the name returns for the host name returned by The
DNS domain name is the part after the first dot.  Therefore it depends on the
configuration of the resolver (usually in how you can change it. Usually the
hosts file is parsed before DNS or NIS, so it is most common to change the
FQDN in If a machine has multiple network interfaces/addresses or is used in a
mobile environment, then it may either have multiple FQDNs/domain names or
none at all. Therefore avoid using and is subject to the same limitations so
it should be avoided as well.

Display the alias name of the host (if used). This option is deprecated and
should not be used anymore.  Displays all FQDNs of the machine. This option
enumerates all configured network addresses on all configured network
interfaces, and translates them to DNS domain names. Addresses that cannot be
translated (i.e. because they do not have an appropriate reverse IP entry) are
skipped. Note that different addresses may resolve to the same name, therefore
the output may contain duplicate entries. Do not make any assumptions about
the order of the output.  Always set a hostname; this allows the file
specified by -F to be non-existent or empty, in which case the default
hostname localhost will be used if none is yet set.  Display the name of the
DNS domain.  Don't use the command to get the DNS domain name because it will
show the NIS domain name and not the DNS domain name. Use instead. See the
warnings in section above, and avoid using this option.	 Display the FQDN
(Fully Qualified Domain Name). A FQDN consists of a short host name and the
DNS domain name. Unless you are using bind or NIS for host lookups you can
change the FQDN and the DNS domain name (which is part of the FQDN) in the
/etc/hosts file. See the warnings in section above and use instead wherever
possible.  Read the host name from the specified file. Comments (lines
starting with a `#') are ignored.  Display the network address(es) of the host
name. Note that this works only if the host name can be resolved. Avoid using
this option; use instead.  Display all network addresses of the host. This
option enumerates all configured addresses on all network interfaces. The
loopback interface and IPv6 link-local addresses are omitted. Contrary to
option -i, this option does not depend on name resolution. Do not make any
assumptions about the order of the output.  Display the short host name. This
is the host name cut at the first dot.	Print version information on standard
output and exit successfully.  Display the NIS domain name. If a parameter is
given (or ) then root can also set a new NIS domain.  Print a usage message
and exit.  The address families tries when looking up the FQDN, aliases and
network addresses of the host are determined by the configuration of your
resolver.  For instance, on GNU Libc systems, the resolver can be instructed
to try IPv6 lookups first by using the option in Historically this file was
supposed to only contain the hostname and not the full canonical FQDN.
Nowadays most software is able to cope with a full FQDN here. This file is
read at boot time by the system initialization scripts to set the hostname.
Usually, this is where one sets the domain name by aliasing the host name to
the FQDN.  Peter Tobias, <tobias@et-inf.fho-emden.de>
Bernd Eckenfels, <net-tools@lina.inka.de> (NIS and manpage).
Michael Meskes, <meskes@debian.org>


