dumpkeys - dump keyboard translation tables [OPTIONS] writes, to the standard
output, the current contents of the keyboard driver's translation tables, in
the format specified by Using the various options, the format of the output
can be controlled and also other information from the kernel and the programs
and can be obtained.  Prints the program's version number and a short usage
message to the program's standard error output and exits.  Prints some
characteristics of the kernel's keyboard driver. The items shown are: Keycode
range supported by the kernel This tells what values can be used after the
keyword in keytable files. See for more information and the syntax of these
files.	Number of actions bindable to a key This tells how many different
actions a single key can output using various modifier keys. If the value is
16 for example, you can define up to 16 different actions to a key combined
with modifiers. When the value is 16, the kernel probably knows about four
modifier keys, which you can press in different combinations with the key to
access all the bound actions.  Ranges of action codes supported by the kernel
This item contains a list of action code ranges in hexadecimal notation.
These are the values that can be used in the right hand side of a key
definition, ie. the in a line = (see for more information about the format of
key definition lines).	and support a symbolic notation, which is preferable
to the numeric one, as the action codes may vary from kernel to kernel while
the symbolic names usually remain the same. However, the list of action code
ranges can be used to determine, if the kernel actually supports all the
symbols knows, or are there maybe some actions supported by the kernel that
have no symbolic name in your program. To see this, you compare the range list
with the action symbol list, see option below.	Number of function keys
supported by kernel This tells the number of action codes that can be used to
output strings of characters. These action codes are traditionally bound to
the various function and editing keys of the keyboard and are defined to send
standard escape sequences. However, you can redefine these to send common
command lines, email addresses or whatever you like.  Especially if the number
of this item is greater than the number of function and editing keys in your
keyboard, you may have some "spare" action codes that you can bind to AltGr-
letter combinations, for example, to send some useful strings. See for more
details.  Function strings You can see you current function key definitions
with the command This option instructs to print a long information listing.
The output is the same as with the appended with the list of action symbols
supported by and along with the symbols' numeric values.  This option causes
to by-pass the conversion of action code values to symbolic notation and to
print the in hexadecimal format instead.  This makes skip all the short-hand
heuristics (see and output the key bindings in the canonical form. First a
keymaps line describing the currently defined modifier combinations is
printed. Then for each key a row with a column for each modifier combination
is printed. For example, if the current keymap in use uses seven modifiers,
every row will have seven action code columns. This format can be useful for
example to programs that post-process the output of Available shapes: default
output.	 one line for each keycode.  one line for each (modifier,keycode)
pair.  one line for each keycode until 1st hole.  This forces to write one
line per (modifier,keycode) pair. It prefixes the word for plain keycodes.
When this option is given, prints only the function key string definitions.
Normally prints both the key bindings and the string definitions.  When this
option is given, prints only the key bindings. Normally prints both the key
bindings and the string definitions.  When this option is given, prints only
the compose key combinations.  This option is available only if your kernel
has compose key support.  This instructs to interpret character code values
according to the specified character set. This affects only the translation of
character code values to symbolic names. Valid values for currently are Where
X is a digit in 1-9.  If no is specified, is used as a default.	 This option
produces an output line `charset "iso-8859-X"', telling loadkeys how to
interpret the keymap. (For example, "division" is 0xf7 in iso-8859-1 but 0xba
in iso-8859-8.)	 The affected console device can be specified using the (or )
option. This option supports exactly one device name.  Turn on verbose output.
Prints version number and exits.  The recommended directory for keytable
files.



