elfedit - update ELF header and program property of ELF files elfedit
[--input-mach=machine]
	[--input-type=type]
	[--input-osabi=osabi]
	[--input-abiversion=version]
	--output-mach=machine
	--output-type=type
	--output-osabi=osabi
	--output-abiversion=version
	--enable-x86-feature=feature
	--disable-x86-feature=feature
	[-v|--version]
	[-h|--help]
	elffile...  elfedit updates the ELF header and program property of ELF
files which have the matching ELF machine and file types.  The options control
how and which fields in the ELF header and program property should be updated.
elffile... are the ELF files to be updated.  32-bit and 64-bit ELF files are
supported, as are archives containing ELF files.  The long and short forms of
options, shown here as alternatives, are equivalent. At least one of the
--output-mach, --output-type, --output-osabi, --output-abiversion,
--enable-x86-feature and --disable-x86-feature options must be given.  Set the
matching input ELF machine type to machine.  If --input-mach isn't specified,
it will match any ELF machine types.

The supported ELF machine types are, i386, IAMCU, L1OM, K1OM and x86-64.
Change the ELF machine type in the ELF header to machine.  The supported ELF
machine types are the same as --input-mach.  Set the matching input ELF file
type to type.  If --input-type isn't specified, it will match any ELF file
types.

The supported ELF file types are, rel, exec and dyn.  Change the ELF file type
in the ELF header to type.  The supported ELF types are the same as
--input-type.  Set the matching input ELF file OSABI to osabi.	If
--input-osabi isn't specified, it will match any ELF OSABIs.

The supported ELF OSABIs are, none, HPUX, NetBSD, GNU, Linux (alias for GNU),
Solaris, AIX, Irix, FreeBSD, TRU64, Modesto, OpenBSD, OpenVMS, NSK, AROS and
FenixOS.  Change the ELF OSABI in the ELF header to osabi.  The supported ELF
OSABI are the same as --input-osabi.  Set the matching input ELF file
ABIVERSION to version.	version must be between 0 and 255.  If
--input-abiversion isn't specified, it will match any ELF ABIVERSIONs.	Change
the ELF ABIVERSION in the ELF header to version.  version must be between 0
and 255.  Set the feature bit in program property in exec or dyn ELF files
with machine types of i386 or x86-64.  The supported features are, ibt, shstk,
lam_u48 and lam_u57.  Clear the feature bit in program property in exec or dyn
ELF files with machine types of i386 or x86-64.	 The supported features are
the same as --enable-x86-feature.

Note: --enable-x86-feature and --disable-x86-feature are available only on
hosts with mmap support.  Display the version number of elfedit.  Display the
command-line options understood by elfedit.  Read command-line options from
file.  The options read are inserted in place of the original @file option.
If file does not exist, or cannot be read, then the option will be treated
literally, and not removed.

Options in file are separated by whitespace.  A whitespace character may be
included in an option by surrounding the entire option in either single or
double quotes.	Any character (including a backslash) may be included by
prefixing the character to be included with a backslash.  The file may itself
contain additional @file options; any such options will be processed
recursively.  readelf(1), and the Info entries for binutils.  Copyright (c)
1991-2025 Free Software Foundation, Inc.  Permission is granted to copy,
distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free
Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free
Software Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts,
and with no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the
section entitled "GNU Free Documentation License".


