find - search for files in a directory hierarchy [-H] [-L] [-P] [-D debugopts]
[-Olevel] [starting-point...] [expression] This manual page documents the GNU
version of GNU searches the directory tree rooted at each given starting-point
by evaluating the given expression from left to right, according to the rules
of precedence (see section OPERATORS), until the outcome is known (the left
hand side is false for and operations, true for at which point moves on to the
next file name.	 If no starting-point is specified, `.' is assumed.  If you
are using in an environment where security is important (for example if you
are using it to search directories that are writable by other users), you
should read the `Security Considerations' chapter of the findutils
documentation, which is called Finding Files and comes with findutils.	That
document also includes a lot more detail and discussion than this manual page,
so you may find it a more useful source of information.	 The and options
control the treatment of symbolic links.  Command-line arguments following
these are taken to be names of files or directories to be examined, up to the
first argument that begins with `-', or the argument `(' or `!'.  That
argument and any following arguments are taken to be the expression describing
what is to be searched for.  If no paths are given, the current directory is
used.  If no expression is given, the expression is used (but you should
probably consider using instead, anyway).  This manual page talks about
`options' within the expression list.  These options control the behaviour of
but are specified immediately after the last path name.	 The five `real'
options and must appear before the first path name, if at all.	A double dash
could theoretically be used to signal that any remaining arguments are not
options, but this does not really work due to the way determines the end of
the following path arguments: it does that by reading until an expression
argument comes (which also starts with a `-').	Now, if a path argument would
start with a `-', then would treat it as expression argument instead.  Thus,
to ensure that all start points are taken as such, and especially to prevent
that wildcard patterns expanded by the calling shell are not mistakenly
treated as expression arguments, it is generally safer to prefix wildcards or
dubious path names with either `./' or to use absolute path names starting
with '/'.  Alternatively, it is generally safe though non-portable to use the
GNU option to pass arbitrary starting points to

Never follow symbolic links.  This is the default behaviour.  When examines or
prints information about files, and the file is a symbolic link, the
information used shall be taken from the properties of the symbolic link
itself.

Follow symbolic links.	When examines or prints information about files, the
information used shall be taken from the properties of the file to which the
link points, not from the link itself (unless it is a broken symbolic link or
is unable to examine the file to which the link points).  Use of this option
implies If you later use the option, will still be in effect.  If is in effect
and discovers a symbolic link to a subdirectory during its search, the
subdirectory pointed to by the symbolic link will be searched.	When the
option is in effect, the predicate will always match against the type of the
file that a symbolic link points to rather than the link itself (unless the
symbolic link is broken).  Actions that can cause symbolic links to become
broken while is executing (for example can give rise to confusing behaviour.
Using causes the and predicates always to return false.

Do not follow symbolic links, except while processing the command line
arguments.  When examines or prints information about files, the information
used shall be taken from the properties of the symbolic link itself.  The only
exception to this behaviour is when a file specified on the command line is a
symbolic link, and the link can be resolved.  For that situation, the
information used is taken from whatever the link points to (that is, the link
is followed).  The information about the link itself is used as a fallback if
the file pointed to by the symbolic link cannot be examined.  If is in effect
and one of the paths specified on the command line is a symbolic link to a
directory, the contents of that directory will be examined (though of course
would prevent this).  If more than one of and is specified, each overrides the
others; the last one appearing on the command line takes effect.  Since it is
the default, the option should be considered to be in effect unless either or
is specified.

GNU frequently stats files during the processing of the command line itself,
before any searching has begun.	 These options also affect how those arguments
are processed.	Specifically, there are a number of tests that compare files
listed on the command line against a file we are currently considering.	 In
each case, the file specified on the command line will have been examined and
some of its properties will have been saved.  If the named file is in fact a
symbolic link, and the option is in effect (or if neither nor were specified),
the information used for the comparison will be taken from the properties of
the symbolic link.  Otherwise, it will be taken from the properties of the
file the link points to.  If cannot follow the link (for example because it
has insufficient privileges or the link points to a nonexistent file) the
properties of the link itself will be used.  When the or options are in
effect, any symbolic links listed as the argument of will be dereferenced, and
the timestamp will be taken from the file to which the symbolic link points.
The same consideration applies to and

The option has a similar effect to though it takes effect at the point where
it appears (that is, if is not used but is, any symbolic links appearing after
on the command line will be dereferenced, and those before it will not).

Print diagnostic information; this can be helpful to diagnose problems with
why is not doing what you want.	 The list of debug options should be comma
separated.  Compatibility of the debug options is not guaranteed between
releases of findutils.	For a complete list of valid debug options, see the
output of Valid debug options include Show diagnostic information relating to
-exec, -execdir, -ok and -okdir Prints diagnostic information relating to the
optimisation of the expression tree; see the -O option.	 Prints a summary
indicating how often each predicate succeeded or failed.  Navigate the
directory tree verbosely.  Print messages as files are examined with the and
system calls.  The program tries to minimise such calls.  Show the expression
tree in its original and optimized form.  Enable all of the other debug
options (but Explain the debugging options.  Enables query optimisation.  The
program reorders tests to speed up execution while preserving the overall
effect; that is, predicates with side effects are not reordered relative to
each other.  The optimisations performed at each optimisation level are as
follows.  Equivalent to optimisation level 1.  This is the default
optimisation level and corresponds to the traditional behaviour.  Expressions
are reordered so that tests based only on the names of files (for example and
are performed first.  Any or tests are performed after any tests based only on
the names of files, but before any tests that require information from the
inode.	On many modern versions of Unix, file types are returned by and so
these predicates are faster to evaluate than predicates which need to stat the
file first.  If you use the predicate and specify a filesystem type which is
not known (that is, present in `/etc/mtab') at the time starts, that predicate
is equivalent to At this optimisation level, the full cost-based query
optimizer is enabled.  The order of tests is modified so that cheap (i.e.
fast) tests are performed first and more expensive ones are performed later,
if necessary.  Within each cost band, predicates are evaluated earlier or
later according to whether they are likely to succeed or not.  For predicates
which are likely to succeed are evaluated earlier, and for predicates which
are likely to fail are evaluated earlier.  The cost-based optimizer has a
fixed idea of how likely any given test is to succeed.	In some cases the
probability takes account of the specific nature of the test (for example, is
assumed to be more likely to succeed than The cost-based optimizer is
currently being evaluated.  If it does not actually improve the performance of
it will be removed again.  Conversely, optimisations that prove to be
reliable, robust and effective may be enabled at lower optimisation levels
over time.  However, the default behaviour (i.e. optimisation level 1) will
not be changed in the 4.3.x release series.  The findutils test suite runs all
the tests on at each optimisation level and ensures that the result is the
same.

The re-ordering of operations performed by the cost-based optimizer can result
in user-visible behaviour change.  For example, the and predicates are
sensitive to re-ordering.  If they are run in the order an error message will
be issued for unreadable directories.  If they are run in the order no error
message will be issued. This is the reason why such operation re-ordering is
not performed at the default optimisation level.  The part of the command line
after the list of starting points is the This is a kind of query specification
describing how we match files and what we do with the files that were matched.
An expression is composed of a sequence of things:

Tests return a true or false value, usually on the basis of some property of a
file we are considering.  The test for example is true only when the current
file is empty.

Actions have side effects (such as printing something on the standard output)
and return either true or false, usually based on whether or not they are
successful.  The action for example prints the name of the current file on the
standard output.

Global options affect the operation of tests and actions specified on any part
of the command line.  Global options always return true.  The option for
example makes traverse the file system in a depth-first order.

Positional options affect only tests or actions which follow them.  Positional
options always return true.  The option for example is positional, specifying
the regular expression dialect for regular expressions occurring later on the
command line.

Operators join together the other items within the expression.	They include
for example (meaning logical OR) and (meaning logical AND).  Where an operator
is missing, is assumed.

The action is performed on all files for which the whole expression is true,
unless it contains an action other than or Actions which inhibit the default
are and


The action also acts like an option (since it implies

Positional options always return true.	They affect only tests occurring later
on the command line.

Measure times (for and from the beginning of today rather than from 24 hours
ago.  This option only affects tests which appear later on the command line.

Deprecated; use the option instead.  Dereference symbolic links.  Implies The
option affects only those tests which appear after it on the command line.
Unless the or option has been specified, the position of the option changes
the behaviour of the predicate; any files listed as the argument of will be
dereferenced if they are symbolic links.  The same consideration applies to
and Similarly, the predicate will always match against the type of the file
that a symbolic link points to rather than the link itself.  Using causes the
predicates always to return false.

Changes the regular expression syntax understood by and tests which occur
later on the command line.  To see which regular expression types are known,
use The Texinfo documentation (see explains the meaning of and differences
between the various types of regular expression.  If you do not use this
option, find behaves as if the regular expression type had been specified.

Turn warning messages on or off.  These warnings apply only to the command
line usage, not to any conditions that might encounter when it searches
directories.  The default behaviour corresponds to if standard input is a tty,
and to otherwise.  If a warning message relating to command-line usage is
produced, the exit status of is not affected.  If the environment variable is
set, and is also used, it is not specified which, if any, warnings will be
active.

Global options always return true.  Global options take effect even for tests
which occur earlier on the command line.  To prevent confusion, global options
should be specified on the command-line after the list of start points, just
before the first test, positional option or action.  If you specify a global
option in some other place, will issue a warning message explaining that this
can be confusing.

The global options occur after the list of start points, and so are not the
same kind of option as for example.

A synonym for -depth, for compatibility with FreeBSD, NetBSD, MacOS X and
OpenBSD.

Process each directory's contents before the directory itself.	The -delete
action also implies

Read the starting points from file instead of getting them on the command
line.  In contrast to the known limitations of passing starting points via
arguments on the command line, namely the limitation of the amount of file
names, and the inherent ambiguity of file names clashing with option names,
using this option allows to safely pass an arbitrary number of starting points
to find.

Using this option and passing starting points on the command line is mutually
exclusive, and is therefore not allowed at the same time.

The file argument is mandatory.	 One can use to read the list of starting
points from the standard input stream, and e.g. from a pipe.  In this case,
the actions and are not allowed, because they would obviously interfere with
reading from standard input in order to get a user confirmation.

The starting points in file have to be separated by ASCII NUL characters.  Two
consecutive NUL characters, i.e., a starting point with a Zero-length file
name is not allowed and will lead to an error diagnostic followed by a non-
Zero exit code later.

In the case the given file is empty, find does not process any starting point
and therefore will exit immediately after parsing the program arguments.  This
is unlike the standard invocation where find assumes the current directory as
starting point if no path argument is passed.

The processing of the starting points is otherwise as usual, e.g.  will
recurse into subdirectories unless otherwise prevented.	 To process only the
starting points, one can additionally pass

Further notes: if a file is listed more than once in the input file, it is
unspecified whether it is visited more than once.  If the file is mutated
during the operation of the result is unspecified as well.  Finally, the seek
position within the named file at the time exits, be it with or in any other
way, is also unspecified.  By "unspecified" here is meant that it may or may
not work or do any specific thing, and that the behavior may change from
platform to platform, or from release to release.

Print a summary of the command-line usage of and exit.

Normally, find will emit an error message when it fails to stat a file.	 If
you give this option and a file is deleted between the time find reads the
name of the file from the directory and the time it tries to stat the file, no
error message will be issued.  This also applies to files or directories whose
names are given on the command line.  This option takes effect at the time the
command line is read, which means that you cannot search one part of the
filesystem with this option on and part of it with this option off (if you
need to do that, you will need to issue two find commands instead, one with
the option and one without it).

Furthermore, with the option will ignore errors of the action in the case the
file has disappeared since the parent directory was read: it will not output
an error diagnostic, and the return code of the action will be true.

Descend at most levels (a non-negative integer) levels of directories below
the starting-points.  Using means only apply the tests and actions to the
starting-points themselves.

Do not apply any tests or actions at levels less than levels (a non-negative
integer).  Using means process all files except the starting-points.

Don't descend directories on other filesystems.	 An alternate name for for
compatibility with some other versions of

Turns off the effect of

Do not optimize by assuming that directories contain 2 fewer subdirectories
than their hard link count.  This option is needed when searching filesystems
that do not follow the Unix directory-link convention, such as CD-ROM or MS-
DOS filesystems or AFS volume mount points.  Each directory on a normal Unix
filesystem has at least 2 hard links: its name and its `.' entry.
Additionally, its subdirectories (if any) each have a `..' entry linked to
that directory.	 When is examining a directory, after it has statted 2 fewer
subdirectories than the directory's link count, it knows that the rest of the
entries in the directory are non-directories (`leaf' files in the directory
tree).	If only the files' names need to be examined, there is no need to stat
them; this gives a significant increase in search speed.

Print the find version number and exit.

Don't descend directories on autofs filesystems.

Don't descend directories on other filesystems.

Some tests, for example and allow comparison between the file currently being
examined and some reference file specified on the command line.	 When these
tests are used, the interpretation of the reference file is determined by the
options and and any previous but the reference file is only examined once, at
the time the command line is parsed.  If the reference file cannot be examined
(for example, the system call fails for it), an error message is issued, and
exits with a nonzero status.  A numeric argument n can be specified to tests
(like and as for greater than for less than for exactly Supported tests:

File was last accessed less than, more than or exactly n minutes ago.

Time of the last access of the current file is more recent than that of the
last data modification of the reference file.  If reference is a symbolic link
and the option or the option is in effect, then the time of the last data
modification of the file it points to is always used.

File was last accessed less than, more than or exactly hours ago.  When
figures out how many 24-hour periods ago the file was last accessed, any
fractional part is ignored, so to match a file has to have been accessed at
least days ago.

File's status was last changed less than, more than or exactly n minutes ago.

Time of the last status change of the current file is more recent than that of
the last data modification of the reference file.  If reference is a symbolic
link and the option or the option is in effect, then the time of the last data
modification of the file it points to is always used.

File's status was last changed less than, more than or exactly hours ago.  See
the comments for to understand how rounding affects the interpretation of file
status change times.

File is empty and is either a regular file or a directory.

Matches files which are executable and directories which are searchable (in a
file name resolution sense) by the current user.  This takes into account
access control lists and other permissions artefacts which the test ignores.
This test makes use of the system call, and so can be fooled by NFS servers
which do UID mapping (or root-squashing), since many systems implement in the
client's kernel and so cannot make use of the UID mapping information held on
the server.  Because this test is based only on the result of the system call,
there is no guarantee that a file for which this test succeeds can actually be
executed.

Always false.

File is on a filesystem of type The valid filesystem types vary among
different versions of Unix; an incomplete list of filesystem types that are
accepted on some version of Unix or another is: ufs, 4.2, 4.3, nfs, tmp, mfs,
S51K, S52K.  You can use with the %F directive to see the types of your
filesystems.

File's numeric group ID is less than, more than or exactly

File belongs to group gname (numeric group ID allowed).

Like but the match is case insensitive.	 If the option or the option is in
effect, this test returns false unless the symbolic link is broken.


Like but the match is case insensitive.	 For example, the patterns `fo*' and
`F??' match the file names `Foo', `FOO', `foo', `fOo', etc.  The pattern
`*foo*` will also match a file called '.foobar'.

File has inode number smaller than, greater than or exactly It is normally
easier to use the test instead.

Like but the match is case insensitive.

Like but the match is case insensitive.

See -ipath.  This alternative is less portable than

File has less than, more than or exactly n hard links.

File is a symbolic link whose contents match shell pattern The metacharacters
do not treat `/' or `.' specially.  If the option or the option is in effect,
this test returns false unless the symbolic link is broken.

File's data was last modified less than, more than or exactly n minutes ago.

File's data was last modified less than, more than or exactly hours ago.  See
the comments for to understand how rounding affects the interpretation of file
modification times.

Base of file name (the path with the leading directories removed) matches
shell pattern Because the leading directories of the file names are removed,
the should not include a slash, because `-name a/b' will never match anything
(and you probably want to use instead).	 An exception to this is when using
only a slash as pattern (`-name /'), because that is a valid string for
matching the root directory "/" (because the base name of "/" is "/").	A
warning is issued if you try to pass a pattern containing a - but not
consisting solely of one - slash, unless the environment variable is set or
the option is used.

To ignore a directory and the files under it, use rather than checking every
file in the tree; see an example in the description of that action.  Braces
are not recognised as being special, despite the fact that some shells
including Bash imbue braces with a special meaning in shell patterns.  The
filename matching is performed with the use of the library function.  Don't
forget to enclose the pattern in quotes in order to protect it from expansion
by the shell.

Time of the last data modification of the current file is more recent than
that of the last data modification of the reference file.  If reference is a
symbolic link and the option or the option is in effect, then the time of the
last data modification of the file it points to is always used.

Succeeds if timestamp X of the file being considered is newer than timestamp Y
of the file The letters X and Y can be any of the following letters:

a   The access time of the file reference
B   The birth time of the file reference
c   The inode status change time of reference
m   The modification time of the file reference
t   reference is interpreted directly as a time

Some combinations are invalid; for example, it is invalid for to be Some
combinations are not implemented on all systems; for example is not supported
on all systems.	 If an invalid or unsupported combination of is specified, a
fatal error results.  Time specifications are interpreted as for the argument
to the option of GNU If you try to use the birth time of a reference file, and
the birth time cannot be determined, a fatal error message results.  If you
specify a test which refers to the birth time of files being examined, this
test will fail for any files where the birth time is unknown.

No group corresponds to file's numeric group ID.

No user corresponds to file's numeric user ID.

File name matches shell pattern The metacharacters do not treat `/' or `.'
specially; so, for example,
find . -path "./sr*sc"
will print an entry for a directory called (if one exists).  To ignore a whole
directory tree, use rather than checking every file in the tree.  Note that
the pattern match test applies to the whole file name, starting from one of
the start points named on the command line.  It would only make sense to use
an absolute path name here if the relevant start point is also an absolute
path.  This means that this command will never match anything:
find bar -path /foo/bar/myfile -print
Find compares the argument with the concatenation of a directory name and the
base name of the file it's examining.  Since the concatenation will never end
with a slash, arguments ending in a slash will match nothing (except perhaps a
start point specified on the command line).  The predicate is also supported
by HP-UX and is part of the POSIX 2008 standard.

File's permission bits are exactly mode (octal or symbolic).  Since an exact
match is required, if you want to use this form for symbolic modes, you may
have to specify a rather complex mode string.  For example `-perm g=w' will
only match files which have mode 0020 (that is, ones for which group write
permission is the only permission set).	 It is more likely that you will want
to use the `/' or `-' forms, for example `-perm -g=w', which matches any file
with group write permission.  See the section for some illustrative examples.

All of the permission bits mode are set for the file.  Symbolic modes are
accepted in this form, and this is usually the way in which you would want to
use them.  You must specify `u', `g' or `o' if you use a symbolic mode.	 See
the section for some illustrative examples.

Any of the permission bits mode are set for the file.  Symbolic modes are
accepted in this form.	You must specify `u', `g' or `o' if you use a symbolic
mode.  See the section for some illustrative examples.	If no permission bits
in are set, this test matches any file (the idea here is to be consistent with
the behaviour of

This is no longer supported (and has been deprecated since 2005).  Use
instead.

Matches files which are readable by the current user.  This takes into account
access control lists and other permissions artefacts which the test ignores.
This test makes use of the system call, and so can be fooled by NFS servers
which do UID mapping (or root-squashing), since many systems implement in the
client's kernel and so cannot make use of the UID mapping information held on
the server.

File name matches regular expression This is a match on the whole path, not a
search.	 For example, to match a file named you can use the regular expression
`.*bar.' or `.*b.*3', but not `f.*r3'.	The regular expressions understood by
are by default Emacs Regular Expressions, but this can be changed with the
option.

File refers to the same inode as When is in effect, this can include symbolic
links.

File uses less than, more than or exactly n units of space, rounding up.  The
following suffixes can be used: for 512-byte blocks (this is the default if no
suffix is used) for bytes for two-byte words for kibibytes (KiB, units of 1024
bytes) for mebibytes (MiB, units of 1024 * 1024 = 1048576 bytes) for gibibytes
(GiB, units of 1024 * 1024 * 1024 = 1073741824 bytes) The size is simply the
st_size member of the struct stat populated by the lstat (or stat) system
call, rounded up as shown above.  In other words, it's consistent with the
result you get for Bear in mind that the `%k' and `%b' format specifiers of
handle sparse files differently.  The `b' suffix always denotes 512-byte
blocks and never 1024-byte blocks, which is different to the behaviour of The
+ and - prefixes signify greater than and less than, as usual; i.e., an exact
size of n units does not match.	 Bear in mind that the size is rounded up to
the next unit.	Therefore is not equivalent to The former only matches empty
files, the latter matches files from 0 to 1,048,575 bytes.  Always true.

File is of type block (buffered) special character (unbuffered) special
directory named pipe (FIFO) regular file symbolic link; this is never true if
the option or the option is in effect, unless the symbolic link is broken.  If
you want to search for symbolic links when is in effect, use socket door
(Solaris) To search for more than one type at once, you can supply the
combined list of type letters separated by a comma `,' (GNU extension).
File's numeric user ID is less than, more than or exactly

File was last accessed less than, more than or exactly n days after its status
was last changed.

File is owned by user uname (numeric user ID allowed).

See -path.  This alternative is less portable than

Matches files which are writable by the current user.  This takes into account
access control lists and other permissions artefacts which the test ignores.
This test makes use of the system call, and so can be fooled by NFS servers
which do UID mapping (or root-squashing), since many systems implement in the
client's kernel and so cannot make use of the UID mapping information held on
the server.

The same as unless the file is a symbolic link.	 For symbolic links: if the or
option was specified, true if the file is a link to a file of type if the
option has been given, true if c is `l'.  In other words, for symbolic links,
checks the type of the file that does not check.  If a symbolic link is broken
(because the thing it points to does not exist or the link points to itself)
then will behave the same as (SELinux only) Security context of the file
matches glob

Delete files or directories; true if removal succeeded.	 If the removal
failed, an error message is issued and exit status will be nonzero (when it
eventually exits).

Don't forget that evaluates the command line as an expression, so putting
first will make try to delete everything below the starting points you
specified.

The use of the action on the command line automatically turns on the option.
As in turn makes ineffective, the action cannot usefully be combined with

Often, the user might want to test a command line with prior to adding for the
actual removal run.  To avoid surprising results, it is usually best to
remember to use explicitly during those earlier test runs.

The action will fail to remove a directory unless it is empty.

Together with the option, will ignore errors of the action in the case the
file has disappeared since the parent directory was read: it will not output
an error diagnostic, not change the exit code to nonzero, and the return code
of the action will be true.


Execute true if 0 status is returned.  All following arguments to are taken to
be arguments to the command until an argument consisting of `;' is
encountered.  The string `{}' is replaced by the current file name being
processed everywhere it occurs in the arguments to the command, not just in
arguments where it is alone, as in some versions of Both of these
constructions might need to be escaped (with a `\') or quoted to protect them
from expansion by the shell.  See the section for examples of the use of the
option.	 The specified command is run once for each matched file.  The command
is executed in the starting directory.	There are unavoidable security
problems surrounding use of the action; you should use the option instead.

This variant of the action runs the specified command on the selected files,
but the command line is built by appending each selected file name at the end;
the total number of invocations of the command will be much less than the
number of matched files.  The command line is built in much the same way that
builds its command lines.  Only one instance of `{}' is allowed within the
command, and it must appear at the end, immediately before the `+'; it needs
to be escaped (with a `\') or quoted to protect it from interpretation by the
shell.	The command is executed in the starting directory.  If any invocation
with the `+' form returns a non-zero value as exit status, then returns a non-
zero exit status.  If encounters an error, this can sometimes cause an
immediate exit, so some pending commands may not be run at all.	 For this
reason may not result in actually being run.  This variant of always returns
true.

Like but the specified command is run from the subdirectory containing the
matched file, which is not normally the directory in which you started As with
-exec, the {} should be quoted if find is being invoked from a shell.  This a
much more secure method for invoking commands, as it avoids race conditions
during resolution of the paths to the matched files.  As with the action, the
`+' form of will build a command line to process more than one matched file,
but any given invocation of will only list files that exist in the same
subdirectory.  If you use this option, you must ensure that your environment
variable does not reference `.'; otherwise, an attacker can run any commands
they like by leaving an appropriately-named file in a directory in which you
will run The same applies to having entries in which are empty or which are
not absolute directory names.  If any invocation with the `+' form returns a
non-zero value as exit status, then returns a non-zero exit status.  If
encounters an error, this can sometimes cause an immediate exit, so some
pending commands may not be run at all.	 The result of the action depends on
whether the or the variant is being used; always returns true, while returns
true only if returns 0.


True; like but write to file like The output file is always created, even if
the predicate is never matched.	 See the section for information about how
unusual characters in filenames are handled.

True; print the full file name into file If file does not exist when find is
run, it is created; if it does exist, it is truncated.	The file names and are
handled specially; they refer to the standard output and standard error
output, respectively.  The output file is always created, even if the
predicate is never matched.  See the section for information about how unusual
characters in filenames are handled.

True; like but write to file like The output file is always created, even if
the predicate is never matched.	 See the section for information about how
unusual characters in filenames are handled.

True; like but write to file like The output file is always created, even if
the predicate is never matched.	 See the section for information about how
unusual characters in filenames are handled.

True; list current file in format on standard output.  The block counts are of
1 KB blocks, unless the environment variable is set, in which case 512-byte
blocks are used.  See the section for information about how unusual characters
in filenames are handled.

Like but ask the user first.  If the user agrees, run the command.  Otherwise
just return false.  If the command is run, its standard input is redirected
from This action may not be specified together with the option.

The response to the prompt is matched against a pair of regular expressions to
determine if it is an affirmative or negative response.	 This regular
expression is obtained from the system if the environment variable is set, or
otherwise from message translations.  If the system has no suitable
definition, own definition will be used.  In either case, the interpretation
of the regular expression itself will be affected by the environment variables
(character classes) and (character ranges and equivalence classes).



Like but ask the user first in the same way as for If the user does not agree,
just return false.  If the command is run, its standard input is redirected
from This action may not be specified together with the option.


True; print the full file name on the standard output, followed by a newline.
If you are piping the output of into another program and there is the faintest
possibility that the files which you are searching for might contain a
newline, then you should seriously consider using the option instead of See
the section for information about how unusual characters in filenames are
handled.

True; print the full file name on the standard output, followed by a null
character (instead of the newline character that uses).	 This allows file
names that contain newlines or other types of white space to be correctly
interpreted by programs that process the find output.  This option corresponds
to the option of

True; print format on the standard output, interpreting `\' escapes and `%'
directives.  Field widths and precisions can be specified as with the C
function.  Please note that many of the fields are printed as %s rather than
%d, and this may mean that flags don't work as you might expect.  This also
means that the `-' flag does work (it forces fields to be left-aligned).
Unlike does not add a newline at the end of the string.	 The escapes and
directives are: Alarm bell.  Backspace.	 Stop printing from this format
immediately and flush the output.  Form feed.  Newline.	 Carriage return.
Horizontal tab.	 Vertical tab.	ASCII NUL.  A literal backslash (`\').	The
character whose ASCII code is NNN (octal).  A `\' character followed by any
other character is treated as an ordinary character, so they both are printed.
A literal percent sign.	 File's last access time in the format returned by the
C function.  File's last access time in the format specified by which is
either `@' or a directive for the C function.  The following shows an
incomplete list of possible values for k.  Please refer to the documentation
of for the full list.  Some of the conversion specification characters might
not be available on all systems, due to differences in the implementation of
the library function.  seconds since Jan. 1, 1970, 00:00 GMT, with fractional
part.  Time fields: hour (00..23) hour (01..12) hour ( 0..23) hour ( 1..12)
minute (00..59) locale's AM or PM time, 12-hour (hh:mm:ss [AP]M) Second (00.00
.. 61.00).  There is a fractional part.	 time, 24-hour (hh:mm:ss.xxxxxxxxxx)
Date and time, separated by `+', for example `2004-04-28+22:22:05.0'.  This is
a GNU extension.  The time is given in the current timezone (which may be
affected by setting the environment variable).	The seconds field includes a
fractional part.  locale's time representation (H:M:S).	 The seconds field
includes a fractional part.  time zone (e.g., EDT), or nothing if no time zone
is determinable Date fields: locale's abbreviated weekday name (Sun..Sat)
locale's full weekday name, variable length (Sunday..Saturday) locale's
abbreviated month name (Jan..Dec) locale's full month name, variable length
(January..December) locale's date and time (Sat Nov 04 12:02:33 EST 1989).
The format is the same as for and so to preserve compatibility with that
format, there is no fractional part in the seconds field.  day of month
(01..31) date (mm/dd/yy) date (yyyy-mm-dd) same as b day of year (001..366)
month (01..12) week number of year with Sunday as first day of week (00..53)
day of week (0..6) week number of year with Monday as first day of week
(00..53) locale's date representation (mm/dd/yy) last two digits of year
(00..99) year (1970...) The amount of disk space used for this file in
512-byte blocks.  Since disk space is allocated in multiples of the filesystem
block size this is usually greater than %s/512, but it can also be smaller if
the file is a sparse file.

File's birth time, i.e., its creation time, in the format specified by which
is the same as for %A.	This directive produces an empty string if the
underlying operating system or filesystem does not support birth times.

File's last status change time in the format returned by the C function.
File's last status change time in the format specified by which is the same as
for %A.	 File's depth in the directory tree; 0 means the file is a starting-
point.	The device number on which the file exists (the st_dev field of struct
stat), in decimal.  Print the basename; the file's name with any leading
directories removed (only the last element).  For the result is `/'.  See the
section for an example.

Type of the filesystem the file is on; this value can be used for -fstype.
File's group name, or numeric group ID if the group has no name.  File's
numeric group ID.  Dirname; the Leading directories of the file's name (all
but the last element).	If the file name contains no slashes (since it is in
the current directory) the %h specifier expands to `.'.	 For files which are
themselves directories and contain a slash (including %h expands to the empty
string.	 See the section for an example.  Starting-point under which file was
found.	File's inode number (in decimal).  The amount of disk space used for
this file in 1 KB blocks.  Since disk space is allocated in multiples of the
filesystem block size this is usually greater than %s/1024, but it can also be
smaller if the file is a sparse file.  Object of symbolic link (empty string
if file is not a symbolic link).  File's permission bits (in octal).  This
option uses the `traditional' numbers which most Unix implementations use, but
if your particular implementation uses an unusual ordering of octal
permissions bits, you will see a difference between the actual value of the
file's mode and the output of %m.  Normally you will want to have a leading
zero on this number, and to do this, you should use the flag (as in, for
example, `%#m').  File's permissions (in symbolic form, as for This directive
is supported in findutils 4.2.5 and later.  Number of hard links to file.
File's name.  File's name with the name of the starting-point under which it
was found removed.  File's size in bytes.  File's sparseness.  This is
calculated as (BLOCKSIZE*st_blocks / st_size).	The exact value you will get
for an ordinary file of a certain length is system-dependent.  However,
normally sparse files will have values less than 1.0, and files which use
indirect blocks may have a value which is greater than 1.0.  In general the
number of blocks used by a file is file system dependent.  The value used for
BLOCKSIZE is system-dependent, but is usually 512 bytes.  If the file size is
zero, the value printed is undefined.  On systems which lack support for
st_blocks, a file's sparseness is assumed to be 1.0.  File's last modification
time in the format returned by the C function.	File's last modification time
in the format specified by which is the same as for %A.	 File's user name, or
numeric user ID if the user has no name.  File's numeric user ID.  File's type
(like in U=unknown type (shouldn't happen) File's type (like %y), plus follow
symbolic links: `L'=loop, `N'=nonexistent, `?' for any other error when
determining the type of the target of a symbolic link.	(SELinux only) file's
security context.  Reserved for future use.  A `%' character followed by any
other character is discarded, but the other character is printed (don't rely
on this, as further format characters may be introduced).  A `%' at the end of
the format argument causes undefined behaviour since there is no following
character.  In some locales, it may hide your door keys, while in others it
may remove the final page from the novel you are reading.

The %m and %d directives support the and flags, but the other directives do
not, even if they print numbers.  Numeric directives that do not support these
flags include and The `-' format flag is supported and changes the alignment
of a field from right-justified (which is the default) to left-justified.  See
the section for information about how unusual characters in filenames are
handled.


True; if the file is a directory, do not descend into it.  If is given, then
has no effect.	Because implies you cannot usefully use and together.  For
example, to skip the directory and all files and directories under it, and
print the names of the other files found, do something like this:
find . -path ./src/emacs -prune -o -print


Exit immediately (with return value zero if no errors have occurred).  This is
different to because only applies to the contents of pruned directories, while
simply makes stop immediately.	No child processes will be left running.  Any
command lines which have been built by or are invoked before the program is
exited.	 After is executed, no more files specified on the command line will
be processed.  For example, will print only `/tmp/foo`.
One common use of is to stop searching the file system once we have found what
we want.  For example, if we want to find just a single file we can do this:
find / -name needle -print -quit

Listed in order of decreasing precedence:

Force precedence.  Since parentheses are special to the shell, you will
normally need to quote them.  Many of the examples in this manual page use
backslashes for this purpose: `\(...\)' instead of `(...)'.

True if expr is false.	This character will also usually need protection from
interpretation by the shell.

Same as ! but not POSIX compliant.

Two expressions in a row are taken to be joined with an implied expr2 is not
evaluated if expr1 is false.

Same as

Same as but not POSIX compliant.

Or; expr2 is not evaluated if expr1 is true.

Same as expr1 but not POSIX compliant.

List; both expr1 and expr2 are always evaluated.  The value of expr1 is
discarded; the value of the list is the value of The comma operator can be
useful for searching for several different types of thing, but traversing the
filesystem hierarchy only once.	 The action can be used to list the various
matched items into several different output files.  Please note that when
specified implicitly (for example by two tests appearing without an explicit
operator between them) or explicitly has higher precedence than This means
that will never print Many of the actions of result in the printing of data
which is under the control of other users.  This includes file names, sizes,
modification times and so forth.  File names are a potential problem since
they can contain any character except `\0' and `/'.  Unusual characters in
file names can do unexpected and often undesirable things to your terminal
(for example, changing the settings of your function keys on some terminals).
Unusual characters are handled differently by various actions, as described
below.

Always print the exact filename, unchanged, even if the output is going to a
terminal.

Unusual characters are always escaped.	White space, backslash, and double
quote characters are printed using C-style escaping (for example `\f', `\"').
Other unusual characters are printed using an octal escape.  Other printable
characters (for and these are the characters between octal 041 and 0176) are
printed as-is.

If the output is not going to a terminal, it is printed as-is.	Otherwise, the
result depends on which directive is in use.  The directives %D, %F, %g, %G,
%H, %Y, and %y expand to values which are not under control of files' owners,
and so are printed as-is.  The directives %a, %b, %c, %d, %i, %k, %m, %M, %n,
%s, %t, %u and %U have values which are under the control of files' owners but
which cannot be used to send arbitrary data to the terminal, and so these are
printed as-is.	The directives %f, %h, %l, %p and %P are quoted.  This quoting
is performed in the same way as for GNU This is not the same quoting mechanism
as the one used for and If you are able to decide what format to use for the
output of then it is normally better to use `\0' as a terminator than to use
newline, as file names can contain white space and newline characters.	The
setting of the environment variable is used to determine which characters need
to be quoted.

Quoting is handled in the same way as for and If you are using in a script or
in a situation where the matched files might have arbitrary names, you should
consider using instead of The and actions print the current filename as-is.
This may change in a future release.  For closest compliance to the POSIX
standard, you should set the environment variable.  The following options are
specified in the POSIX standard (IEEE Std 1003.1-2008, 2016 Edition):

This option is supported.

This option is supported.

This option is supported, but POSIX conformance depends on the POSIX
conformance of the system's library function.  As of findutils-4.2.2, shell
metacharacters (`*', `?' or `[]' for example) match a leading `.', because
IEEE PASC interpretation 126 requires this.  This is a change from previous
versions of findutils.

Supported.  POSIX specifies `b', `c', `d', `l', `p', `f' and `s'.  GNU find
also supports `D', representing a Door, where the OS provides these.
Furthermore, GNU find allows multiple types to be specified at once in a
comma-separated list.

Supported.  Interpretation of the response is according to the `yes' and `no'
patterns selected by setting the environment variable.	When the environment
variable is set, these patterns are taken system's definition of a positive
(yes) or negative (no) response.  See the system's documentation for in
particular YESEXPR and NOEXPR.	When is not set, the patterns are instead
taken from own message catalogue.

Supported.  If the file specified is a symbolic link, it is always
dereferenced.  This is a change from previous behaviour, which used to take
the relevant time from the symbolic link; see the HISTORY section below.

Supported.  If the environment variable is not set, some mode arguments (for
example +a+x) which are not valid in POSIX are supported for backward-
compatibility.

The primaries and are all supported.

The POSIX standard specifies parentheses `(', `)', negation `!' and the
logical AND/OR operators and All other options, predicates, expressions and so
forth are extensions beyond the POSIX standard.	 Many of these extensions are
not unique to GNU find, however.  The POSIX standard requires that detects
loops: The utility shall detect infinite loops; that is, entering a previously
visited directory that is an ancestor of the last file encountered.  When it
detects an infinite loop, shall write a diagnostic message to standard error
and shall either recover its position in the hierarchy or terminate.  GNU
complies with these requirements.  The link count of directories which contain
entries which are hard links to an ancestor will often be lower than they
otherwise should be.  This can mean that GNU find will sometimes optimize away
the visiting of a subdirectory which is actually a link to an ancestor.	 Since
does not actually enter such a subdirectory, it is allowed to avoid emitting a
diagnostic message.  Although this behaviour may be somewhat confusing, it is
unlikely that anybody actually depends on this behaviour.  If the leaf
optimisation has been turned off with the directory entry will always be
examined and the diagnostic message will be issued where it is appropriate.
Symbolic links cannot be used to create filesystem cycles as such, but if the
option or the option is in use, a diagnostic message is issued when encounters
a loop of symbolic links.  As with loops containing hard links, the leaf
optimisation will often mean that knows that it doesn't need to call or on the
symbolic link, so this diagnostic is frequently not necessary.	The option is
supported for compatibility with various BSD systems, but you should use the
POSIX-compliant option instead.	 The environment variable does not affect the
behaviour of the or tests because those tests aren't specified in the POSIX
standard.

Provides a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset
or null.

If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other
internationalization variables.

The POSIX standard specifies that this variable affects the pattern matching
to be used for the option.  GNU find uses the library function, and so support
for depends on the system library.  This variable also affects the
interpretation of the response to while the variable selects the actual
pattern used to interpret the response to the interpretation of any bracket
expressions in the pattern will be affected by

This variable affects the treatment of character classes used in regular
expressions and also with the test, if the system's library function supports
this.  This variable also affects the interpretation of any character classes
in the regular expressions used to interpret the response to the prompt issued
by The environment variable will also affect which characters are considered
to be unprintable when filenames are printed; see the section UNUSUAL
FILENAMES.

Determines the locale to be used for internationalised messages.  If the
environment variable is set, this also determines the interpretation of the
response to the prompt made by the action.

Determines the location of the internationalisation message catalogues.

Affects the directories which are searched to find the executables invoked by
and

Determines the block size used by and If is set, blocks are units of 512
bytes.	Otherwise they are units of 1024 bytes.	 Setting this variable also
turns off warning messages (that is, implies by default, because POSIX
requires that apart from the output for all messages printed on stderr are
diagnostics and must result in a non-zero exit status.	When is not set, is
treated just like if +zzz is not a valid symbolic mode.	 When is set, such
constructs are treated as an error.  When is set, the response to the prompt
made by the action is interpreted according to the system's message catalogue,
as opposed to according to own message translations.

Affects the time zone used for some of the time-related format directives of
and Find files named in or below the directory and delete them.
Note that this will work incorrectly if there are any filenames containing
newlines, single or double quotes, or spaces.  Find files named core in or
below the directory /tmp and delete them, processing filenames in such a way
that file or directory names containing single or double quotes, spaces or
newlines are correctly handled.
The test comes before the test in order to avoid having to call on every file.
Note that there is still a race between the time traverses the hierarchy
printing the matching filenames, and the time the process executed by works
with that file.	 Given that another program proggy pre-filters and creates a
huge NUL-separated list of files, process those as starting points, and find
all regular, empty files among them:
The use of means to read the names of the starting points from standard input,
i.e., from the pipe; and ensures that only explicitly those entries are
examined without recursing into directories (in the case one of the starting
points is one).	 Executing a command for each file Run on every file in or
below the current directory.
Notice that the braces are enclosed in single quote marks to protect them from
interpretation as shell script punctuation.  The semicolon is similarly
protected by the use of a backslash, though single quotes could have been used
in that case also.  In many cases, one might prefer the or better the syntax
for performance and security reasons.  Traverse the filesystem just once,
listing set-user-ID files and directories into and large files into
This example uses the line-continuation character '\' on the first two lines
to instruct the shell to continue reading the command on the next line.
Searching files by age Search for files in your home directory which have been
modified in the last twenty-four hours.
This command works this way because the time since each file was last modified
is divided by 24 hours and any remainder is discarded.	That means that to
match a file will have to have a modification in the past which is less than
24 hours ago.  Searching files by permissions Search for files which are
executable but not readable.
Search for files which have read and write permission for their owner, and
group, but which other users can read but not write to.
Files which meet these criteria but have other permissions bits set (for
example if someone can execute the file) will not be matched.  Search for
files which have read and write permission for their owner and group, and
which other users can read, without regard to the presence of any extra
permission bits (for example the executable bit).
This will match a file which has mode for example.  Search for files which are
writable by somebody (their owner, or their group, or anybody else).
Search for files which are writable by either their owner or their group.
All three of these commands do the same thing, but the first one uses the
octal representation of the file mode, and the other two use the symbolic
form.  The files don't have to be writable by both the owner and group to be
matched; either will do.  Search for files which are writable by both their
owner and their group.
Both these commands do the same thing.	A more elaborate search on
permissions.
These two commands both search for files that are readable for everybody or
have at least one write bit set or but are not executable for anybody or
respectively).	Pruning - omitting files and subdirectories Copy the contents
of to but omit files and directories named (and anything in them).  It also
omits files or directories whose name ends in `~', but not their contents.
The construct is quite common.	The idea here is that the expression before
matches things which are to be pruned.	However, the action itself returns
true, so the following ensures that the right hand side is evaluated only for
those directories which didn't get pruned (the contents of the pruned
directories are not even visited, so their contents are irrelevant).  The
expression on the right hand side of the is in parentheses only for clarity.
It emphasises that the action takes place only for things that didn't have
applied to them.  Because the default `and' condition between tests binds more
tightly than this is the default anyway, but the parentheses help to show what
is going on.  Given the following directory of projects and their associated
SCM administrative directories, perform an efficient search for the projects'
roots:
Sample output:
In this example, prevents unnecessary descent into directories that have
already been discovered (for example we do not search because we already found
but ensures sibling directories and are found.	Other useful examples Search
for several file types.
Search for files, directories, and symbolic links in the directory passing
these types as a comma-separated list (GNU extension), which is otherwise
equivalent to the longer, yet more portable:
Search for files with the particular name and stop immediately when we find
the first one.
Demonstrate the interpretation of the and format directives of the action for
some corner-cases.  Here is an example including some output.
exits with status 0 if all files are processed successfully, greater than 0 if
errors occur.  This is deliberately a very broad description, but if the
return value is non-zero, you should not rely on the correctness of the
results of

When some error occurs, may stop immediately, without completing all the
actions specified.  For example, some starting points may not have been
examined or some pending program invocations for or may not have been
performed.

A program appeared in Version 5 Unix as part of the Programmer's Workbench
project and was written by Dick Haight.	 Doug McIlroy's provides some
additional details; you can read it on-line at
<https://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/~doug/reader.pdf>.

GNU was originally written by Eric Decker, with enhancements by David
MacKenzie, Jay Plett, and Tim Wood.  The idea for and came from Dan Bernstein.
As of findutils-4.2.2, shell metacharacters (`*', `?' or `[]' for example)
used in filename patterns match a leading `.', because IEEE POSIX
interpretation 126 requires this.  As of findutils-4.3.3, now matches all
files instead of none.	Nanosecond-resolution timestamps were implemented in
findutils-4.3.3.  As of findutils-4.3.11, the action sets exit status to a
nonzero value when it fails.  However, will not exit immediately.  Previously,
exit status was unaffected by the failure of
Feature		       Added in	  Also occurs in
-files0-from	       4.9.0
-newerXY	       4.3.3	  BSD
-D		       4.3.1
-O		       4.3.1
-readable	       4.3.0
-writable	       4.3.0
-executable	       4.3.0
-regextype	       4.2.24
-exec ... +	       4.2.12	  POSIX
-execdir	       4.2.12	  BSD
-okdir		       4.2.12
-samefile	       4.2.11
-H		       4.2.5	  POSIX
-L		       4.2.5	  POSIX
-P		       4.2.5	  BSD
-delete		       4.2.3
-quit		       4.2.3
-d		       4.2.3	  BSD
-wholename	       4.2.0
-iwholename	       4.2.0
-ignore_readdir_race   4.2.0
-fls		       4.0
-ilname		       3.8
-iname		       3.8
-ipath		       3.8
-iregex		       3.8
The syntax was removed in findutils-4.5.12, in favour of The syntax had been
deprecated since findutils-4.2.21 which was released in 2005.  The command
will never print because this is actually equivalent to Remember that the
precedence of is higher than that of and when there is no operator specified
between tests, is assumed.
find: paths must precede expression
find: possible unquoted pattern after predicate `-name'?
This happens when the shell could expand the pattern to more than one file
name existing in the current directory, and passing the resulting file names
in the command line to like this:
That command is of course not going to work, because the predicate allows
exactly only one pattern as argument.  Instead of doing things this way, you
should enclose the pattern in quotes or escape the wildcard, thus allowing to
use the pattern with the wildcard during the search for file name matching
instead of file names expanded by the parent shell:
There are security problems inherent in the behaviour that the POSIX standard
specifies for which therefore cannot be fixed.	For example, the action is
inherently insecure, and should be used instead.  The environment variable has
no effect on the action.  GNU findutils online help:
<https://www.gnu.org/software/findutils/#get-help>
Report any translation bugs to <https://translationproject.org/team/> Report
any other issue via the form at the GNU Savannah bug tracker:
<https://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?group=findutils> General topics about the GNU
findutils package are discussed at the mailing list:
<https://lists.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/bug-findutils> Copyright © 1990–2024
Free Software Foundation, Inc.	License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later
<https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is
NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.  Full documentation
<https://www.gnu.org/software/findutils/find>
or available locally via:


