fuser - identify processes using files or sockets ]
displays the PIDs of processes using the specified files or file systems.  In
the default display mode, each file name is followed by a letter denoting the
type of access: current directory.  executable being run.  open file.  is
omitted in default display mode.  open file for writing.  is omitted in
default display mode.  root directory.	mmap'ed file or shared library.
Placeholder, omitted in default display mode.  returns a non-zero return code
if none of the specified files is accessed or in case of a fatal error.	 If at
least one access has been found, returns zero.	In order to look up processes
using TCP and UDP sockets, the corresponding name space has to be selected
with the option. By default will look in both IPv6 and IPv4 sockets.  To
change the default behavior, use the and options.  The socket(s) can be
specified by the local and remote port, and the remote address.	 All fields
are optional, but commas in front of missing fields must be present: Either
symbolic or numeric values can be used for IP addresses and port numbers.
outputs only the PIDs to stdout, everything else is sent to stderr.  Show all
files specified on the command line.  By default, only files that are accessed
by at least one process are shown.  Same as -m option, used for POSIX
compatibility.	Silently ignored, used for POSIX compatibility.	 Kill
processes accessing the file.  Unless changed with , SIGKILL is sent.  An
process never kills itself, but may kill other processes.  The effective user
ID of the process executing is set to its real user ID before attempting to
kill.  Ask the user for confirmation before killing a process.	This option is
silently ignored if is not present too.	 For the name space let all
comparisons be based on the inodes of the specified file(s) and never on the
file names even on network based file systems.	List all known signal names.
specifies a file on a mounted file system or a block device that is mounted.
All processes accessing files on that file system are listed.  If a directory
is specified, it is automatically changed to to use any file system that might
be mounted on that directory.  Request will be fulfilled only if specifies a
mountpoint.  This is an invaluable seat belt which prevents you from killing
the machine if happens to not be a filesystem.	Kill only processes which have
write access.  This option is silently ignored if is not present too.  Select
a different name space.	 The name spaces (file names, the default), (local UDP
ports), and (local TCP ports) are supported.  For ports, either the port
number or the symbolic name can be specified.  If there is no ambiguity, the
shortcut notation (e.g., can be used.  Silent operation.  and are ignored in
this mode.  must not be used with Use the specified signal instead of SIGKILL
when killing processes.	 Signals can be specified either by name (e.g., or by
number (e.g., This option is silently ignored if the option is not used.
Append the user name of the process owner to each PID.	Verbose mode.
Processes are shown in a style.	 The fields PID, USER and COMMAND are similar
to ACCESS shows how the process accesses the file.  Verbose mode will also
show when a particular file is being accessed as a mount point, knfs export or
swap file.  In this case is shown instead of the PID.  Display version
information.  Search only for IPv4 sockets.  This option must not be used with
the option and only has an effect with the tcp and udp namespaces.  Search
only for IPv6 sockets.	This option must not be used with the option and only
has an effect with the tcp and udp namespaces.	/proc location of the proc
file system kills all processes accessing the file system /home in any way.
invokes if no other process is using /dev/ttyS1.  shows all processes at the
(local) TELNET port.  Processes accessing the same file or file system several
times in the same way are only shown once.  If the same object is specified
several times on the command line, some of those entries may be ignored.  may
only be able to gather partial information unless run with privileges.	As a
consequence, files opened by processes belonging to other users may not be
listed and executables may be classified as mapped only.  cannot report on any
processes that it doesn't have permission to look at the file descriptor table
for.  The most common time this problem occurs is when looking for TCP or UDP
sockets when running as a non-root user.  In this case will report no access.
Installing SUID root will avoid problems associated with partial information,
but may be undesirable for security and privacy reasons.  and name spaces, and
UNIX domain sockets can't be searched with kernels older than 1.3.78.
Accesses by the kernel are only shown with the option.	The option only works
on processes.  If the user is the kernel, will print an advice, but take no
action beyond that.  will not see block devices mounted by processes in a
different mount namespace.  This is due to the device ID shown in the process'
file descriptor table being from the process namespace, not fuser's; meaning
it won't match.	 will show (or kill with the -k flag) all processes, even if
you don't have that device configured.	There may be other devices it does
this for too.  The mount -m option will match any file within the same device
as the specified file, use the -M option as well if you mean to specify only
the mount point.  will not match mapped files, such as a process' shared
libraries if they are on a filesystem due to the device IDs being different
for and /proc/<PID>/maps.


