gawk - pattern scanning and processing language [ POSIX or GNU style options ]
[ ] file ...
[ POSIX or GNU style options ] [ ] file ...  This manual page is provided as a
courtesy.  Please note that the One Source Of Truth for is the Texinfo manual,
available online in several formats at It may also be installed in the Info
subsystem on your system, and available therefore via the command.  In the
case of any contradiction between the Texinfo manual and this man page, the
manual should be considered to be authoritative.  is the GNU Project's
implementation of the AWK programming language.	 It conforms to the definition
of the language in the POSIX 1003.1 standard.  This version in turn is based
on the description in by Aho, Kernighan, and Weinberger.  provides the
additional features found in the current version of Brian Kernighan's and
numerous GNU-specific extensions.  The command line consists of options to
itself, the AWK program text (if not supplied via the or options), and values
to be made available in the and pre-defined AWK variables.  This manual page
is intentionally as terse as possible.	Full details are provided in GAWK:
Effective AWK Programming, and you should look there for the full story on any
specific feature.  Where possible, links to the online version of the manual
are provided.  options may be either traditional POSIX-style one letter
options, or GNU-style long options.  POSIX options start with a single “-”,
while long options start with “--”.  Long options are provided for both
GNU-specific features and for POSIX-mandated features.	options are typically
used in long-option form.  Arguments to long options are either joined with
the option by an sign, with no intervening spaces, or they may be provided in
the next command line argument.	 Long options may be abbreviated, as long as
the abbreviation remains unique.  Additionally, every long option has a
corresponding short option, so that the option's functionality may be used
from within executable scripts.	 accepts the following options.	 Standard
options are listed first, followed by options for extensions, listed
alphabetically by short option.	 Read the AWK program source from the file
instead of from the first command line argument.  Multiple options may be
used.  Files read with are treated as if they begin with an implicit
@namespace "awk" statement.  Use for the input field separator (the value of
the predefined variable).  -v var=val, --assign var=val Assign the value to
the variable before execution of the program begins.  Such variable values are
available to the rule of an AWK program.  Treat all input data as single-byte
characters.  The option overrides this one.  Run in mode.  In compatibility
mode, behaves identically to Brian Kernighan's none of the GNU-specific
extensions are recognized.  Print the short version of the GNU copyright
information message on the standard output and exit successfully.  -d[file],
--dump-variables[=file] Print a sorted list of global variables, their types
and final values to The default file is in the current directory.  -D[file],
--debug[=file] Enable debugging of AWK programs.  By default, the debugger
reads commands interactively from the keyboard (standard input).  The optional
argument specifies a file with a list of commands for the debugger to execute
non-interactively.
In this mode of execution, loads the AWK source code and then prompts for
debugging commands.  can only debug AWK program source provided with the and
options.  The debugger is documented in GAWK: Effective AWK Programming; see
Use as AWK program source code.	 Each argument supplied via is treated as if
it begins with an implicit @namespace "awk" statement.	-E file, --exec file
Similar to however, this option is the last one processed.  This should be
used with scripts, particularly for CGI applications, to avoid passing in
options or source code (!) on the command line from a URL.  This option
disables command-line variable assignments.  Scan and parse the AWK program,
and generate a GNU (Portable Object Template) format file on standard output
with entries for all localizable strings in the program.  The program itself
is not executed.  Print a relatively short summary of the available options on
the standard output.  Per the these options cause an immediate, successful
exit.  -i include-file, --include include-file Load an awk source library.
This searches for the library using the environment variable.  If the initial
search fails, another attempt will be made after appending the suffix.	The
file will be loaded only once (i.e., duplicates are eliminated), and the code
does not constitute the main program source.  Files read with are treated as
if they begin with an implicit @namespace "awk" statement.  Print the internal
byte code names as they are executed when running the program.	The trace is
printed to standard error.  Each “op code” is preceded by a sign in the
output.	 -k, --csv Enable CSV special processing.  See below, for more detail.
Load a extension from the shared library This searches for the library using
the environment variable.  If the initial search fails, another attempt will
be made after appending the default shared library suffix for the platform.
The library initialization routine is expected to be named -L [value],
--lint[=value] Provide warnings about constructs that are dubious or non-
portable to other AWK implementations.	See for the list of possible values
for Force arbitrary precision arithmetic on numbers.  This option has no
effect if is not compiled to use the GNU MPFR and GMP libraries.  (In such a
case, issues a warning.)

This feature is The primary maintainer is no longer supporting it, although
there is a member of the development team who is.  If this situation changes,
the feature will be removed from Recognize octal and hexadecimal values in
input data.  Force to use the locale's decimal point character when parsing
input data.  -o[file], --pretty-print[=file] Output a pretty printed version
of the program to The default file is in the current directory.	 This option
implies Enable default optimizations upon the internal representation of the
program.  This option is on by default.	 -p[prof-file], --profile[=prof-file]
Start a profiling session, and send the profiling data to The default is in
the current directory.	The profile contains execution counts of each
statement in the program in the left margin and function call counts for each
user-defined function.	runs more slowly in this mode.	This option implies
This turns on mode, and disables a number of common extensions.	 Enable the
use of in regular expression matching.	Interval expressions are enabled by
default, but this option remains for backwards compatibility.  Disable default
optimizations upon the internal representation of the program.	Run in sandbox
mode, disabling the function, input redirection with output redirection with
and loading dynamic extensions.	 Command execution (through pipelines) is also
disabled.  Provide warnings about constructs that are not portable to the
original version of UNIX Print version information for this particular copy of
on the standard output.	 This is useful when reporting bugs.  Per the these
options cause an immediate, successful exit.  Signal the end of options.  This
is useful to allow further arguments to the AWK program itself to start with a
“-”.  In compatibility mode, any other options are flagged as invalid, but are
otherwise ignored.  In normal operation, as long as program text has been
supplied, unknown options are passed on to the AWK program in the array for
processing.  For POSIX compatibility, the option may be used, followed by the
name of a long option.	An AWK program consists of a sequence of optional
directives, pattern-action statements, and optional function definitions.
@include "filename"
@load "filename"
@namespace "name"
pattern	  { action statements }
function name(parameter list) { statements } first reads the program source
from the if specified, from arguments to or from the first non-option argument
on the command line.  The and options may be used multiple times on the
command line.  reads the program text as if all the and command line source
texts had been concatenated together.  In addition, lines beginning with may
be used to include other source files into your program.  This is equivalent
to using the option.  Lines beginning with may be used to load extension
functions into your program.  This is equivalent to using the option.  The
environment variable specifies a search path to use when finding source files
named with the and options.  If this variable does not exist, the default path
is ".:/usr/local/share/awk".  (The actual directory may vary, depending upon
how was built and installed.)  If a file name given to the option contains a
“/” character, no path search is performed.  The environment variable
specifies a search path to use when finding source files named with the
option.	 If this variable does not exist, the default path is
"/usr/local/lib/gawk".	(The actual directory may vary, depending upon how was
built and installed.)  executes AWK programs in the following order.  First,
all variable assignments specified via the option are performed.  Next,
compiles the program into an internal form.  Then, executes the code in the
rule(s) (if any), and then proceeds to read each file named in the array (up
to If there are no files named on the command line, reads the standard input.
If a filename on the command line has the form it is treated as a variable
assignment.  The variable will be assigned the value (This happens after any
rule(s) have been run.)	 If the value of a particular element of is empty
(""), skips over it.  For each input file, if a rule exists, executes the
associated code before processing the contents of the file.  Similarly,
executes the code associated with rules after processing the file.  For each
record in the input, tests to see if it matches any in the AWK program.	 For
each pattern that the record matches, executes the associated The patterns are
tested in the order they occur in the program.	Finally, after all the input
is exhausted, executes the code in the rule(s) (if any).  According to POSIX,
files named on the command line must be text files.  The behavior is
“undefined” if they are not.  Most versions of treat a directory on the
command line as a fatal error.	For a directory on the command line produces a
warning, but is otherwise skipped.  If either of the or options is given, then
reverts to treating directories on the command line as a fatal error.  AWK
variables are dynamic; they come into existence when they are first used.
Their values are either floating-point numbers or strings, or both, depending
upon how they are used.	 Additionally, allows variables to have regular-
expression type.  AWK also has one dimensional arrays; arrays with multiple
dimensions may be simulated.  However, provides true arrays of arrays.
Several pre-defined variables are set as a program runs; these are described
as needed and summarized below.	 Normally, records are separated by newline
characters.  You can control how records are separated by assigning values to
the built-in variable See for the details.  As each input record is read,
splits the record into using the value of the variable as the field separator.
Additionally, and may be used to control input field splitting.	 See the
details, starting at Each field in the input record may be referenced by its
position: and so on.  is the whole record, including leading and trailing
whitespace.  The variable is set to the total number of fields in the input
record.	 References to non-existent fields (i.e., fields after produce the
null string.  However, assigning to a non-existent field (e.g., increases the
value of creates any intervening fields with the null string as their values,
and causes the value of to be recomputed, with the fields being separated by
the value of References to negative numbered fields cause a fatal error.
Decrementing causes the values of fields past the new value to be lost, and
the value of to be recomputed, with the fields being separated by the value of
Assigning a value to an existing field causes the whole record to be rebuilt
when is referenced.  Similarly, assigning a value to causes the record to be
resplit, creating new values for the fields.  When invoked with either the or
the option, does not use regular record determination and field splitting as
described above.  Instead, records are terminated by unquoted newlines, and
fields are separated by commas.	 Double-quotes may be used to enclose fields
containing commas, newlines, or doubled double-quotes.	See for more details.
built-in variables are listed below.  This list is purposely terse.  For
details, see The number of command line arguments.  The index in of the
current file being processed.  Array of command line arguments.	 The array is
indexed from 0 to - 1.	On non-POSIX systems, specifies use of “binary” mode
for all file I/O.  See for the details.	 The conversion format for numbers,
"%.6g", by default.  An array containing the values of the current
environment.  The array is indexed by the environment variables, each element
being the value of that variable.  If a system error occurs either doing a
redirection for during a read for or during a then is set to a string
describing the error.  The value is subject to translation in non-English
locales.  A whitespace-separated list of field widths.	When set, parses the
input into fields of fixed width, instead of using the value of the variable
as the field separator.	 Each field width may optionally be preceded by a
colon-separated value specifying the number of characters to skip before the
field starts.  The name of the current input file.  If no files are specified
on the command line, the value of is “-”.  However, is undefined inside the
rule (unless set by The input record number in the current input file.	A
regular expression describing the contents of the fields in a record.  When
set, parses the input into fields, where the fields match the regular
expression, instead of using the value of as the field separator.  The input
field separator, a space by default.  See for the details.  An array whose
indices and corresponding values are the names of all the user-defined or
extension functions in the program.  You may not use the statement with the
array.	Controls the case-sensitivity of all regular expression and string
operations.  See for details.  Provides dynamic control of the option from
within an AWK program.	The number of fields in the current input record.  The
total number of input records seen so far.  The output format for numbers,
"%.6g", by default.  The output field separator, a space by default.  The
output record separator, by default a newline.	The working precision of
arbitrary precision floating-point numbers, 53 by default.  The elements of
this array provide access to information about the running AWK program.	 See
for the details.  The rounding mode to use for arbitrary precision arithmetic
on numbers, by default "N" (IEEE-754 roundTiesToEven mode).  See for the
details.  The input record separator, by default a newline.  The record
terminator.  sets to the input text that matched the character or regular
expression specified by The index of the first character matched by 0 if no
match.	The length of the string matched by -1 if no match.  The string used
to separate multiple subscripts in array elements, by default "\034".  An
array whose indices are the names of all currently defined global variables
and arrays in the program.  You may not use the statement with the array, nor
assign to elements with an index that is not a variable name.  The text domain
of the AWK program; used to find the localized translations for the program's
strings.  Arrays are subscripted with an expression between square brackets If
the expression is an expression list then the array subscript is a string
consisting of the concatenation of the (string) value of each expression,
separated by the value of the variable.	 This facility is used to simulate
multiply dimensioned arrays.  For example: i = "A"; j = "B"; k = "C"
x[i, j, k] = "hello, world\n" assigns the string "hello, world\n" to the
element of the array which is indexed by the string "A\034B\034C".  All arrays
in AWK are associative, i.e., indexed by string values.	 The special operator
may be used to test if an array has an index consisting of a particular value:
if (val in array)
     print array[val]
If the array has multiple subscripts, use The construct may also be used in a
loop to iterate over all the elements of an array.  However, the construct
only works in tests, not in loops.  An element may be deleted from an array
using the statement.  The statement may also be used to delete the entire
contents of an array, just by specifying the array name without a subscript.
supports true multidimensional arrays.	It does not require that such arrays
be “rectangular” as in C or C++.  See for details.  provides a simple facility
to help work around the fact that all variables in AWK are global.  A consists
of a two simple identifiers joined by a double colon The left-hand identifier
represents the namespace and the right-hand identifier is the variable within
it.  All simple (non-qualified) names are considered to be in the “current”
namespace; the default namespace is However, simple identifiers consisting
solely of uppercase letters are forced into the namespace, even if the current
namespace is different.	 You change the current namespace with an @namespace
"name" directive.  The standard predefined builtin function names may not be
used as namespace names.  The names of additional functions provided by may be
used as namespace names or as simple identifiers in other namespaces.  For
more details, see Variables and fields may be (floating point) numbers, or
strings, or both.  They may also be regular expressions.  How the value of a
variable is interpreted depends upon its context.  If used in a numeric
expression, it will be treated as a number; if used as a string it will be
treated as a string.  To force a variable to be treated as a number, add zero
to it; to force it to be treated as a string, concatenate it with the null
string.	 Uninitialized variables have the numeric value zero and the string
value "" (the null, or empty, string).	When a string must be converted to a
number, the conversion is accomplished using A number is converted to a string
by using the value of as a format string for with the numeric value of the
variable as the argument.  However, even though all numbers in AWK are
floating-point, integral values are converted as integers.  performs
comparisons as follows: If two variables are numeric, they are compared
numerically.  If one value is numeric and the other has a string value that is
a “numeric string,” then comparisons are also done numerically.	 Otherwise,
the numeric value is converted to a string and a string comparison is
performed.  Two strings are compared, of course, as strings.  Note that string
constants, such as "57", are numeric strings, they are string constants.  The
idea of “numeric string” only applies to fields, input, elements, elements and
the elements of an array created by or that are numeric strings.  The basic
idea is that and only user input, that looks numeric, should be treated that
way.  You may use C-style octal and hexadecimal constants in your AWK program
source code.  For example, the octal value is equal to decimal and the
hexadecimal value is equal to decimal 17.  String constants in AWK are
sequences of characters enclosed between double quotes (like "value").	Within
strings, certain are recognized, as in C.  See for the details.	 A regular
expression constant is a sequence of characters enclosed between forward
slashes (like The escape sequences described in the manual may also be used
inside constant regular expressions (e.g., matches whitespace characters).
provides regular expression constants.	These are written with a leading
symbol (like so: Such constants may be assigned to scalars (variables, array
elements) and passed to user-defined functions.	 Variables that have been so
assigned have regular expression type.	AWK is a line-oriented language.  The
pattern comes first, and then the action.  Action statements are enclosed in
and Either the pattern may be missing, or the action may be missing, but, of
course, not both.  If the pattern is missing, the action executes for every
single record of input.	 A missing action is equivalent to which prints the
entire record.	Comments begin with the character, and continue until the end
of the line.  Empty lines may be used to separate statements.  Normally, a
statement ends with a newline, however, this is not the case for lines ending
in a comma, or Lines ending in or also have their statements automatically
continued on the following line.  In other cases, a line can be continued by
ending it with a “\”, in which case the newline is ignored.  However, a “\”
after a is not special.	 Multiple statements may be put on one line by
separating them with a “;”.  This applies to both the statements within the
action part of a pattern-action pair (the usual case), and to the pattern-
action statements themselves.  AWK patterns may be one of the following:
and are two special kinds of patterns which are not tested against the input.
The action parts of all patterns are merged as if all the statements had been
written in a single rule.  They are executed before any of the input is read.
Similarly, all the rules are merged, and executed when all the input is
exhausted (or when an statement is executed).  and patterns cannot be combined
with other patterns in pattern expressions.  and patterns cannot have missing
action parts.  and are additional special patterns whose actions are executed
before reading the first record of each command-line input file and after
reading the last record of each file.  Inside the rule, the value of is the
empty string if the file was opened successfully.  Otherwise, there is some
problem with the file and the code should use to skip it.  If that is not
done, produces its usual fatal error for files that cannot be opened.  For
patterns, the associated statement is executed for each input record that
matches the regular expression.	 Regular expressions are essentially the same
as those in See for the details on regular expressions.	 A may use any of the
operators defined below in the section on actions.  These generally test
whether certain fields match certain regular expressions.  The and operators
are logical AND, logical OR, and logical NOT, respectively, as in C.  They do
short-circuit evaluation, also as in C, and are used for combining more
primitive pattern expressions.	As in most languages, parentheses may be used
to change the order of evaluation.  The operator is like the same operator in
C.  If the first pattern is true then the pattern used for testing is the
second pattern, otherwise it is the third.  Only one of the second and third
patterns is evaluated.	The form of an expression is called a It matches all
input records starting with a record that matches and continuing until a
record that matches inclusive.	It does not combine with any other sort of
pattern expression.  Action statements are enclosed in braces, and Action
statements consist of the usual assignment, conditional, and looping
statements found in most languages.  The operators, control statements, and
input/output statements available are patterned after those in C.  The
operators in AWK, in order of decreasing precedence, are: Grouping Field
reference.  Increment and decrement, both prefix and postfix.  Exponentiation.
Unary plus, unary minus, and logical negation.	Multiplication, division, and
modulus.  Addition and subtraction.  String concatenation.  Piped I/O for and
The regular relational operators.  Regular expression match, negated match.
Array membership.  Logical AND.	 Logical OR.  The C conditional expression.
This has the form If is true, the value of the expression is otherwise it is
Only one of and is evaluated.  Assignment.  Both absolute assignment and
operator-assignment (the other forms) are supported.  The control statements
are as follows:
if (condition) statement [ else statement ]
while (condition) statement
do statement while (condition)
for (expr1; expr2; expr3) statement
for (var in array) statement
break
continue
delete array[index]
delete array
exit [ expression ]
{ statements }
switch (expression) {
case value|regex : statement
...
[ default: statement ]
}
The input/output statements are as follows: close(file [, how]) Close an open
file, pipe or coprocess.  The optional should only be used when closing one
end of a two-way pipe to a coprocess.  It must be a string value, either "to"
or "from".  Set from the next input record; set Set from the next record of
set Set from the next input record; set Set from the next record of set
command | getline [var] Run piping the output either into or as above, and
command |& getline [var] Run as a coprocess piping the output either into or
as above, and can also be a socket.  See the subsection below.)
fflush([file]) Flush any buffers associated with the open output file or pipe
If is missing or if it is the null string, then flush all open output files
and pipes.  Stop processing the current input record.  Read the next input
record and start processing over with the first pattern in the AWK program.
Upon reaching the end of the input data, execute any rule(s).  Stop processing
the current input file.	 The next input record read comes from the next input
file.  Update and reset to 1, and start processing over with the first pattern
in the AWK program.  Upon reaching the end of the input data, execute any and
rule(s).  Print the current record.  The output record is terminated with the
value of Print expressions.  Each expression is separated by the value of The
output record is terminated with the value of Print expressions on Each
expression is separated by the value of The output record is terminated with
the value of Format and print.	Format and print on Execute the command and
return the exit status.	 (This may not be available on non-POSIX systems.)
See for the full details on the exit status.  Additional output redirections
are allowed for and Append output to the Write on a pipe.  Send data to a
coprocess or socket.  (See also the subsection below.)	The function returns 1
on success, zero on end of file, and -1 on an error.  If the value indicates
that the I/O operation may be retried, and PROCINFO["input", "RETRY"] is set,
then -2 is returned instead of -1, and further calls to may be attempted.
Upon an error, is set to a string describing the problem.  Failure in opening
a two-way socket results in a non-fatal error being returned to the calling
function.  If using a pipe, coprocess, or socket to or from or within a loop,
you use to create new instances of the command or socket.  AWK does not
automatically close pipes, sockets, or coprocesses when they return EOF.  The
AWK versions of the statement and function are similar to those of C.  For
details, see When doing I/O redirection from either or into a file, or via
from a file, recognizes certain special filenames internally.  These filenames
allow access to open file descriptors inherited from parent process (usually
the shell).  These file names may also be used on the command line to name
data files.  The filenames are: The standard input.  The standard input.  The
standard output.  The standard error output.  The file associated with the
open file descriptor The following special filenames may be used with the
coprocess operator for creating TCP/IP network connections: Files for a TCP/IP
connection on local port to remote host on remote port Use a port of to have
the system pick a port.	 Use to force an IPv4 connection, and to force an IPv6
connection.  Plain uses the system default (most likely IPv4).	Usable only
with the two-way I/O operator.	Similar, but use UDP/IP instead of TCP/IP.
AWK has the following built-in arithmetic functions: Return the arctangent of
in radians.  Return the cosine of which is in radians.	The exponential
function.  Truncate to integer.	 The natural logarithm function.  Return a
random number between zero and one, such that 0 ≤ N < 1.  Return the sine of
which is in radians.  Return the square root of srand([expr]) Use as the new
seed for the random number generator.  If no is provided, use the time of day.
Return the previous seed for the random number generator.  has the following
built-in string functions; details are provided in asort(s [, d [, how] ])
Return the number of elements in the source array Sort the contents of using
normal rules for comparing values, and replace the indices of the sorted
values with sequential integers starting with 1.  If the optional destination
array is specified, first duplicate into and then sort leaving the indices of
the source array unchanged.  The optional string controls the direction and
the comparison mode.  Valid values for are described in are allowed to be the
same array; this only makes sense when supplying the third argument as well.
asorti(s [, d [, how] ]) Return the number of elements in the source array The
behavior is the same as that of except that the array are used for sorting,
not the array values.  When done, the array is indexed numerically, and the
values are those of the original indices.  The original values are lost; thus
provide a second array if you wish to preserve the original.  The purpose of
the optional string is the same as for Here too, are allowed to be the same
array; this only makes sense when supplying the third argument as well.
gensub(r, s, h [, t]) Search the target string for matches of the regular
expression If is a string beginning with or then replace all matches of with
Otherwise, is a number indicating which match of to replace.  If is not
supplied, use instead.	Within the replacement text the sequence where is a
digit from 1 to 9, may be used to indicate just the text that matched the
parenthesized subexpression.  The sequence represents the entire matched text,
as does the character Unlike and the modified string is returned as the result
of the function, and the original target string is changed.  gsub(r, s [, t])
For each substring matching the regular expression in the string substitute
the string and return the number of substitutions.  If is not supplied, use An
in the replacement text is replaced with the text that was actually matched.
Use to get a literal (This must be typed as "\\&"; see for a fuller discussion
of the rules for ampersands and backslashes in the replacement text of and
Return the index of the string in the string or zero if is not present.	 (This
implies that character indices start at one.)  length([s]) Return the length
of the string or the length of if is not supplied.  With an array argument,
returns the number of elements in the array.  match(s, r [, a]) Return the
position in where the regular expression occurs, or zero if is not present,
and set the values of and Note that the argument order is the same as for the
operator: See for a description of how the array is filled if it is provided.
patsplit(s, a [, r [, seps] ]) Split the string into the array and the
separators array on the regular expression and return the number of fields.
Element values are the portions of that matched The value of is the possibly
null separator that appeared after The value of is the possibly null leading
separator.  If is omitted, is used instead.  The arrays and are cleared first.
Splitting behaves identically to field splitting with split(s, a [, r [, seps]
]) Split the string into the array and the separators array on the regular
expression and return the number of fields.  If is omitted, is used instead.
The arrays and are cleared first.  is the field separator matched by between
and Splitting behaves identically to field splitting.  Print according to and
return the resulting string.  Examine and return its numeric value.  If begins
with a leading treat it as an octal number.  If begins with a leading or treat
it as a hexadecimal number.  Otherwise, assume it is a decimal number.	sub(r,
s [, t]) Just like but replace only the first matching substring.  Return
either zero or one.  substr(s, i [, n]) Return the at most substring of
starting at If is omitted, use the rest of Return a copy of the string with
all the uppercase characters in translated to their corresponding lowercase
counterparts.  Non-alphabetic characters are left unchanged.  Return a copy of
the string with all the lowercase characters in translated to their
corresponding uppercase counterparts.  Non-alphabetic characters are left
unchanged.  is multibyte aware.	 This means that and all work in terms of
characters, not bytes.	provides the following functions for obtaining time
stamps and formatting them.  Details are provided in mktime(datespec [, utc-
flag]) Turn into a time stamp of the same form as returned by and return the
result.	 If is present and is non-zero or non-null, the time is assumed to be
in the UTC time zone; otherwise, the time is assumed to be in the local time
zone.  If does not contain enough elements or if the resulting time is out of
range, returns -1.  See for the details of strftime([format [, timestamp[,
utc-flag]]]) Format according to the specification in If is present and is
non-zero or non-null, the result is in UTC, otherwise the result is in local
time.  The should be of the same form as returned by If is missing, the
current time of day is used.  If is missing, a default format equivalent to
the output of is used.	The default format is available in See the
specification for the function in ISO C for the format conversions that are
guaranteed to be available.  Return the current time of day as the number of
seconds since the Epoch (1970-01-01 00:00:00 UTC on POSIX systems).  supplies
the following bit manipulation functions.  They work by converting double-
precision floating point values to integers, doing the operation, and then
converting the result back to floating point.  Passing negative operands to
any of these functions causes a fatal error.  The functions are: and(v1, v2 [,
...]) Return the bitwise AND of the values provided in the argument list.
There must be at least two.  compl(val) Return the bitwise complement of
lshift(val, count) Return the value of shifted left by bits.  or(v1, v2 [,
...]) Return the bitwise OR of the values provided in the argument list.
There must be at least two.  rshift(val, count) Return the value of shifted
right by bits.	xor(v1, v2 [, ...]) Return the bitwise XOR of the values
provided in the argument list.	There must be at least two.  The following
functions provide type related information about their arguments.  isarray(x)
Return true if is an array, false otherwise.  typeof(x) Return a string
indicating the type of The string will be one of "array", "number", "regexp",
"string", "strnum", "unassigned", or "undefined".  The following functions may
be used from within your AWK program for translating strings at run-time.  For
full details, see bindtextdomain(directory [, domain]) Specify the directory
where looks for the files, in case they will not or cannot be placed in the
“standard” locations.  It returns the directory where is “bound.”
The default is the value of If is the null string (""), then returns the
current binding for the given dcgettext(string [, domain [, category]]) Return
the translation of in text domain for locale category The default value for is
the current value of The default value for is "LC_MESSAGES".
dcngettext(string1, string2, number [, domain [, category]]) Return the plural
form used for of the translation of and in text domain for locale category The
default value for is the current value of The default value for is
"LC_MESSAGES".	You can create special Boolean-typed values; see the manual
for how they work and why they exist.  Based on the boolean value of return
either a true value or a false value.  True values have numeric value one.
False values have numeric value zero.  Functions in AWK are defined as
follows: function name(parameter list) { statements } Functions execute when
they are called from within expressions in either patterns or actions.	Actual
parameters supplied in the function call are used to instantiate the formal
parameters declared in the function.  Arrays are passed by reference, other
variables are passed by value.	Local variables are declared as extra
parameters in the parameter list.  The convention is to separate local
variables from real parameters by extra spaces in the parameter list.  For
example:
function  f(p, q,     a, b)   # a and b are local
{
     ...
}

/abc/	  { ... ; f(1, 2) ; ... }
The left parenthesis in a function call is required to immediately follow the
function name, without any intervening whitespace.  This restriction does not
apply to the built-in functions listed above.  Functions may call each other
and may be recursive.  Function parameters used as local variables are
initialized to the null string and the number zero upon function invocation.
Use to return a value from a function.	The return value is undefined if no
value is provided, or if the function returns by “falling off” the end.
Functions may be called indirectly.  To do this, assign the name of the
function to be called, as a string, to a variable.  Then use the variable as
if it were the name of a function, prefixed with an sign, like so:
function myfunc()
{
     print "myfunc called"
     ...
}

{    ...
     the_func = "myfunc"
     @the_func()    # call through the_func to myfunc
     ...
}
If has been provided, warns about calls to undefined functions at parse time,
instead of at run time.	 Calling an undefined function at run time is a fatal
error.	You can dynamically add new functions written in C or C++ to the
running interpreter with the statement.	 The full details are beyond the scope
of this manual page; see The profiler accepts two signals.  causes it to dump
a profile and function call stack to the profile file, which is either or
whatever file was named with the option.  It then continues to run.  causes to
dump the profile and function call stack and then exit.	 String constants are
sequences of characters enclosed in double quotes.  In non-English speaking
environments, it is possible to mark strings in the AWK program as requiring
translation to the local natural language.  Such strings are marked in the AWK
program with a leading underscore (“_”).  For example,

gawk 'BEGIN { print "hello, world" }'

always prints But,

gawk 'BEGIN { print _"hello, world" }'

might print in France.	See for the steps involved in producing and running a
localizable AWK program.  has a too-large number of extensions to POSIX They
are described in All the extensions can be disabled by invoking with the or
options.  The environment variable can be used to provide a list of
directories that searches when looking for files named via the and options,
and the directive.  If the initial search fails, the path is searched again
after appending to the filename.  The environment variable can be used to
provide a list of directories that searches when looking for files named via
the and options.  The environment variable, if present, specifies a file to
use as the backing store for persistent memory.	 See GAWK: Effective AWK
Programming for the details.  The environment variable can be used to specify
a timeout in milliseconds for reading input from a terminal, pipe or two-way
communication including sockets.  For connection to a remote host via socket,
controls the number of retries, and the interval between retries.  The
interval is in milliseconds.  On systems that do not support the value is
rounded up to an integral number of seconds.  If exists in the environment,
then behaves exactly as if had been specified on the command line.  If has
been specified, issues a warning message to this effect.  If the statement is
used with a value, then exits with the numeric value given to it.  Otherwise,
if there were no problems during execution, exits with the value of the C
constant This is usually zero.	If an error occurs, exits with the value of
the C constant This is usually one.  If exits because of a fatal error, the
exit status is 2.  On non-POSIX systems, this value may be mapped to This man
page documents version 5.3.  The original version of UNIX was designed and
implemented by Alfred Aho, Peter Weinberger, and Brian Kernighan of Bell
Laboratories.  Ozan Yigit is the current maintainer.  Brian Kernighan
occasionally dabbles in its development.  Paul Rubin and Jay Fenlason, of the
Free Software Foundation, wrote to be compatible with the original version of
distributed in Seventh Edition UNIX.  John Woods contributed a number of bug
fixes.	David Trueman, with contributions from Arnold Robbins, made compatible
with the new version of UNIX Arnold Robbins is the current maintainer.	See
GAWK: Effective AWK Programming for a full list of the contributors to and its
documentation.	See the file in the distribution for up-to-date information
about maintainers and which ports are currently supported.  If you find a bug
in please use the program to report it.	 Full instructions for reporting a bug
are provided in carefully read and follow the instructions given there.	 This
will make bug reporting and resolution much easier for everyone involved.
Really.	 On the other hand, if you have a question as to how to accomplish a
particular task using or send an email to with your request for help.  The
option is not necessary given the command line variable assignment feature; it
remains only for backwards compatibility.  This manual page is too long; has
too many features.  and second edition, Alfred V. Aho, Brian W. Kernighan,
Peter J. Weinberger, Addison-Wesley, 2023.  ISBN 9-780138-269722.  GAWK:
Effective AWK Programming, Edition 5.3, shipped with the source.  The current
version of this document is available online at The GNU documentation,
available online at
Print and sort the login names of all users:

     BEGIN     { FS = ":" }
	  { print $1 | "sort" }

Count lines in a file:

	  { nlines++ }
     END  { print nlines }

Precede each line by its number in the file:

     { print FNR, $0 }

Concatenate and line number (a variation on a theme):

     { print NR, $0 }

Run an external command for particular lines of data:

     tail -f access_log |
     awk '/myhome.html/ { system("nmap " $1 ">> logdir/myhome.html") }'
Copyright © 1989, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2001,
2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2007, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016,
2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025 Free Software Foundation,
Inc.  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual page provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.  Permission is granted to copy and distribute
modified versions of this manual page under the conditions for verbatim
copying, provided that the entire resulting derived work is distributed under
the terms of a permission notice identical to this one.	 Permission is granted
to copy and distribute translations of this manual page into another language,
under the above conditions for modified versions, except that this permission
notice may be stated in a translation approved by the Foundation.


