gcore - Generate a core file of a running program gcore [-v | --version] [-h |
--help] [-a] [-o prefix] [-d directory]
      pid1 [pid2...pidN] Generate core dumps of one or more running programs
with process IDs pid1, pid2, etc.  A core file produced by gcore is equivalent
to one produced by the kernel when the process crashes (and when "ulimit -c"
was used to set up an appropriate core dump limit).  However, unlike after a
crash, after gcore finishes its job the program remains running without any
change.	 Dump all memory mappings.  The actual effect of this option depends
on the Operating System.  On GNU/Linux, it will disable "use-coredump-filter"
and enable "dump-excluded-mappings".  The optional argument prefix specifies
the prefix to be used when composing the file names of the core dumps.	The
file name is composed as prefix.pid, where pid is the process ID of the
running program being analyzed by gcore.  If not specified, prefix defaults to
core.  Use directory as the data directory when invoking GDB for running the
gcore command. This argument is optional.  List all options, with brief
explanations.  Print version information and then exit.	 The full
documentation for GDB is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the "info" and
"gdb" programs and GDB's Texinfo documentation are properly installed at your
site, the command
	info gdb
should give you access to the complete manual.	Using GDB: A Guide to the GNU
Source-Level Debugger, Richard M. Stallman and Roland H. Pesch, July 1991.
Copyright (c) 1988-2025 Free Software Foundation, Inc.	Permission is granted
to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU
Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the
Free Software Foundation; with the Invariant Sections being "Free Software"
and "Free Software Needs Free Documentation", with the Front-Cover Texts being
"A GNU Manual," and with the Back-Cover Texts as in (a) below.	(a) The FSF's
Back-Cover Text is: "You are free to copy and modify this GNU Manual.  Buying
copies from GNU Press supports the FSF in developing GNU and promoting
software freedom."


