gdb-add-index - Add index files to speed up GDB gdb-add-index [-h | --help]
[-v | --version] [--dwarf-5] filename When GDB finds a symbol file, it scans
the symbols in the file in order to construct an internal symbol table.	 This
lets most GDB operations work quickly--at the cost of a delay early on.	 For
large programs, this delay can be quite lengthy, so GDB provides a way to
build an index, which speeds up startup.  To determine whether a file contains
such an index, use the command "readelf -S filename": the index is stored in a
section named ".gdb_index" (pre-DWARF 5) or ".debug_names" and ".debug_str"
(DWARF 5).  Indexes can only be produced on systems which use ELF binaries and
DWARF debug information (i.e., sections named ".debug_*").  By default
gdb-add-index will add a pre-DWARF 5 ".gdb_index" section to filename.	With
--dwarf-5 the DWARF 5 section ".debug_names" is added instead.	filename must
be writable.  gdb-add-index uses GDB, objcopy, and readelf found in the PATH
environment variable.  If you want to use different versions of these
programs, you can specify them through the appropriate environment variables
(see below).  gdb-add-index exits with status 0 if it succeeds in creating the
index for filename or greater than 0 if an error occurs.  See more in the GDB
manual in node "Index Files" -- shell command "info -f gdb -n "Index Files"".
Add DWARF 5 sections instead of previous ".gdb_index" section.	List all
options, with brief explanations.  Print version information and then exit.
Full file name of the "gdb" program to use for index generation.  If not set,
the PATH will be searched for a "gdb" program.	Full file name of the
"objcopy" program to use to copy section information into the given file.  If
not set, the PATH will be searched for a "objcopy" program.  Full file name of
the "readelf" program to use to inspect properties of the given file.  If not
set, the PATH will be searched for a "readelf" program.	 The full
documentation for GDB is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the "info" and
"gdb" programs and GDB's Texinfo documentation are properly installed at your
site, the command
	info gdb
should give you access to the complete manual.	Using GDB: A Guide to the GNU
Source-Level Debugger, Richard M. Stallman and Roland H. Pesch, July 1991.
Copyright (c) 1988-2025 Free Software Foundation, Inc.	Permission is granted
to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU
Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the
Free Software Foundation; with the Invariant Sections being "Free Software"
and "Free Software Needs Free Documentation", with the Front-Cover Texts being
"A GNU Manual," and with the Back-Cover Texts as in (a) below.	(a) The FSF's
Back-Cover Text is: "You are free to copy and modify this GNU Manual.  Buying
copies from GNU Press supports the FSF in developing GNU and promoting
software freedom."


