gdb - The GNU Debugger gdb [OPTIONS] [prog|prog procID|prog core] The purpose
of a debugger such as GDB is to allow you to see what is going on "inside"
another program while it executes -- or what another program was doing at the
moment it crashed.  GDB can do four main kinds of things (plus other things in
support of these) to help you catch bugs in the act: Start your program,
specifying anything that might affect its behavior.  Make your program stop on
specified conditions.  Examine what has happened, when your program has
stopped.  Change things in your program, so you can experiment with correcting
the effects of one bug and go on to learn about another.  You can use GDB to
debug programs written in C, C++, Fortran and Modula-2.	 GDB is invoked with
the shell command "gdb".  Once started, it reads commands from the terminal
until you tell it to exit with the GDB command "quit" or "exit".  You can get
online help from GDB itself by using the command "help".  You can run "gdb"
with no arguments or options; but the most usual way to start GDB is with one
argument or two, specifying an executable program as the argument:
	gdb program
You can also start with both an executable program and a core file specified:
	gdb program core
You can, instead, specify a process ID as a second argument or use option
"-p", if you want to debug a running process:
	gdb program 1234
	gdb -p 1234
would attach GDB to process 1234.  With option -p you can omit the program
filename.  Here are some of the most frequently needed GDB commands: Set a
breakpoint at function or line (in file).  Start your program (with arglist,
if specified).	Backtrace: display the program stack.  Display the value of an
expression.  Continue running your program (after stopping, e.g. at a
breakpoint).  Execute next program line (after stopping); step over any
function calls in the line.  look at the program line where it is presently
stopped.  type the text of the program in the vicinity of where it is
presently stopped.  Execute next program line (after stopping); step into any
function calls in the line.  Show information about GDB command name, or
general information about using GDB.  Exit from GDB.  For full details on GDB,
see Using GDB: A Guide to the GNU Source-Level Debugger, by Richard M.
Stallman and Roland H. Pesch.  The same text is available online as the "gdb"
entry in the "info" program.  Any arguments other than options specify an
executable file and core file (or process ID); that is, the first argument
encountered with no associated option flag is equivalent to a --se option, and
the second, if any, is equivalent to a -c option if it's the name of a file.
Many options have both long and abbreviated forms; both are shown here.	 The
long forms are also recognized if you truncate them, so long as enough of the
option is present to be unambiguous.  The abbreviated forms are shown here
with - and long forms are shown with -- to reflect how they are shown in
--help. However, GDB recognizes all of the following conventions for most
options: All the options and command line arguments you give are processed in
sequential order.  The order makes a difference when the -x option is used.
List all options, with brief explanations.  Read symbol table from file.
Enable writing into executable and core files.	Use file as the executable
file to execute when appropriate, and for examining pure data in conjunction
with a core dump.  Read symbol table from file and use it as the executable
file.  Use file as a core dump to examine.  Execute GDB commands from file.
Execute given GDB command.  Execute GDB command before loading the inferior.
Add directory to the path to search for source files.  Do not execute commands
from ~/.config/gdb/gdbinit, ~/.gdbinit, ~/.config/gdb/gdbearlyinit, or
~/.gdbearlyinit Do not execute commands from any .gdbinit or .gdbearlyinit
initialization files.  "Quiet".	 Do not print the introductory and copyright
messages.  These messages are also suppressed in batch mode.  Run in batch
mode.  Exit with status 0 after processing all the command files specified
with -x (and .gdbinit, if not inhibited).  Exit with nonzero status if an
error occurs in executing the GDB commands in the command files.

Batch mode may be useful for running GDB as a filter, for example to download
and run a program on another computer; in order to make this more useful, the
message

	Program exited normally.

(which is ordinarily issued whenever a program running under GDB control
terminates) is not issued when running in batch mode.  Run in batch mode, just
like --batch, but totally silent.  All GDB output is suppressed (stderr is
unaffected).  This is much quieter than --silent and would be useless for an
interactive session.

This is particularly useful when using targets that give Loading section
messages, for example.

Note that targets that give their output via GDB, as opposed to writing
directly to "stdout", will also be made silent.	 Change interpretation of
command line so that arguments following this option are passed as arguments
to the inferior.  As an example, take the following command:

	gdb ./a.out -q

It would start GDB with -q, not printing the introductory message.  On the
other hand, using:

	gdb --args ./a.out -q

starts GDB with the introductory message, and passes the option to the
inferior.  Attach GDB to an already running program, with the PID pid.	Open
the terminal user interface.  Read all symbols from the given symfile on the
first access.  Do not read symbol files.  GDB's exit code will be the same as
the child's exit code.	Print details about GDB configuration and then exit.
Print version information and then exit.  Run GDB using directory as its
working directory, instead of the current directory.  Run GDB using directory
as its data directory.	The data directory is where GDB searches for its
auxiliary files.  Emacs sets this option when it runs GDB as a subprocess.  It
tells GDB to output the full file name and line number in a standard,
recognizable fashion each time a stack frame is displayed (which includes each
time the program stops).  This recognizable format looks like two \032
characters, followed by the file name, line number and character position
separated by colons, and a newline.  The Emacs-to-GDB interface program uses
the two \032 characters as a signal to display the source code for the frame.
Set the line speed (baud rate or bits per second) of any serial interface used
by GDB for remote debugging.  Set timeout, in seconds, for remote debugging.
Run using device for your program's standard input and output.	The full
documentation for GDB is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the "info" and
"gdb" programs and GDB's Texinfo documentation are properly installed at your
site, the command
	info gdb
should give you access to the complete manual.	Using GDB: A Guide to the GNU
Source-Level Debugger, Richard M. Stallman and Roland H. Pesch, July 1991.
Copyright (c) 1988-2025 Free Software Foundation, Inc.	Permission is granted
to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU
Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the
Free Software Foundation; with the Invariant Sections being "Free Software"
and "Free Software Needs Free Documentation", with the Front-Cover Texts being
"A GNU Manual," and with the Back-Cover Texts as in (a) below.	(a) The FSF's
Back-Cover Text is: "You are free to copy and modify this GNU Manual.  Buying
copies from GNU Press supports the FSF in developing GNU and promoting
software freedom."


