getent - get entries from Name Service Switch libraries The command displays
entries from databases supported by the Name Service Switch libraries, which
are configured in If one or more arguments are provided, then only the entries
that match the supplied keys will be displayed.	 Otherwise, if no is provided,
all entries will be displayed (unless the database does not support
enumeration).  The may be any of those supported by the GNU C Library, listed
below: When no is provided, use and to enumerate the hosts database.  This is
identical to using When one or more arguments are provided, pass each in
succession to with the address family enumerating each socket address
structure returned.  Same as but use the address family Same as but use the
address family The call to in this case includes the flag.  When no is
provided, use and to enumerate the aliases database.  When one or more
arguments are provided, pass each in succession to and display the result.
When one or more arguments are provided, pass each in succession to and until
a result is obtained, and display the result.  Enumeration is not supported on
so a must be provided.	When no is provided, use and to enumerate the group
database.  When one or more arguments are provided, pass each numeric to and
each nonnumeric to and display the result.  When no is provided, use and to
enumerate the gshadow database.	 When one or more arguments are provided, pass
each in succession to and display the result.  When no is provided, use and to
enumerate the hosts database.  When one or more arguments are provided, pass
each to or depending on whether a call to indicates that the is an IPv6 or
IPv4 address or not, and display the result.  When one or more arguments are
provided, pass each in succession to and display the result.  Enumeration is
not supported on so a must be provided.	 When one is provided, pass the to
and, using display the resulting string triple Alternatively, three may be
provided, which are interpreted as the and to match to a netgroup name via
Enumeration is not supported on so either one or three must be provided.  When
no is provided, use and to enumerate the networks database.  When one or more
arguments are provided, pass each numeric to and each nonnumeric to and
display the result.  When no is provided, use and to enumerate the passwd
database.  When one or more arguments are provided, pass each numeric to and
each nonnumeric to and display the result.  When no is provided, use and to
enumerate the protocols database.  When one or more arguments are provided,
pass each numeric to and each nonnumeric to and display the result.  When no
is provided, use and to enumerate the rpc database.  When one or more
arguments are provided, pass each numeric to and each nonnumeric to and
display the result.  When no is provided, use and to enumerate the services
database.  When one or more arguments are provided, pass each numeric to and
each nonnumeric to and display the result.  When no is provided, use and to
enumerate the shadow database.	When one or more arguments are provided, pass
each in succession to and display the result.  Override all databases with the
specified service.  (Since glibc 2.2.5.)  Override only specified databases
with the specified service.  The option may be used multiple times, but only
the last service for each database will be used.  (Since glibc 2.4.)  Disables
IDN encoding in lookups for (Since glibc-2.13.)	 Print a usage summary and
exit.  Print a short usage summary and exit.  Print the version number,
license, and disclaimer of warranty for One of the following exit values can
be returned by Command completed successfully.	Missing arguments, or unknown.
One or more supplied could not be found in the Enumeration not supported on
this


