- Communicate with a running agent

The gpg-connect-agent is a utility to communicate with a running gpg-agent.
It is useful to check out the commands gpg-agent provides using the Assuan
interface.  It might also be useful for scripting simple applications.	Input
is expected at stdin and output gets printed to stdout.

It is very similar to running gpg-agent in server mode; but here we connect to
a running instance.




The following options may be used:

Connect to a running directory manager (keyserver client) instead of to the
gpg-agent.  If a dirmngr is not running, start it.

Connect to a running keybox daemon instead of to the gpg-agent.	 If a keyboxd
is not running, start it.

Connect to socket name assuming this is an Assuan style server.	 Do not run
any special initializations or environment checks.  This may be used to
directly connect to any Assuan style socket server.

Take the rest of the command line as a program and it's arguments and execute
it as an Assuan server. Here is how you would run gpgsm:
 gpg-connect-agent --exec gpgsm --server
Note that you may not use options on the command line in this case.

Output additional information while running.

Try to be as quiet as possible.

Set the name of the home directory to dir. If this option is not used, the
home directory defaults to ‘~/.gnupg’.	It is only recognized when given on
the command line.  It also overrides any home directory stated through the
environment variable ‘GNUPGHOME’ or (on Windows systems) by means of the
Registry entry HKCU\Software\GNU\GnuPG:HomeDir.

On Windows systems it is possible to install GnuPG as a portable application.
In this case only this command line option is considered, all other ways to
set a home directory are ignored.

Change the current user to uid which may either be a number or a name.	This
can be used from the root account to run gpg-connect-agent for another user.
If uid is not the current UID a standard PATH is set and the envvar GNUPGHOME
is unset.  To override the latter the option --homedir can be used.  This
option has only an effect when used on the command line.  This option has
currently no effect at all on Windows.

When using -S or --exec, gpg-connect-agent connects to the Assuan server in
extended mode to allow descriptor passing.  This option makes it use the old
mode.

Do not start the gpg-agent or the dirmngr if it has not yet been started.

In interactive mode the command line history is usually saved and restored to
and from a file below the GnuPG home directory.	 This option inhibits the use
of that file.

Specify the agent program to be started if none is running.  The default value
is determined by running gpgconf with the option --list-dirs.  Note that the
pipe symbol (|) is used for a regression test suite hack and may thus not be
used in the file name.

Specify the directory manager (keyserver client) program to be started if none
is running.  This has only an effect if used together with the option
--dirmngr.

Specify the keybox daemon program to be started if none is running.  This has
only an effect if used together with the option --keyboxd.

Run the commands from file at startup and then continue with the regular input
method.	 Note, that commands given on the command line are executed after this
file.

Run the command /subst at startup.

Print data lines in a hex format and the ASCII representation of non-control
characters.

Decode data lines.  That is to remove percent escapes but make sure that a new
line always starts with a D and a space.

Set stdin and stdout into unbuffered I/O mode.	This this sometimes useful for
scripting.




While reading Assuan commands, gpg-agent also allows a few special commands to
control its operation.	These control commands all start with a slash (/).


Just print args.

Set the variable name to value.	 Variables are only substituted on the input
if the /subst has been used.  Variables are referenced by prefixing the name
with a dollar sign and optionally include the name in curly braces.  The rules
for a valid name are identically to those of the standard bourne shell.	 This
is not yet enforced but may be in the future.  When used with curly braces no
leading or trailing white space is allowed.

If a variable is not found, it is searched in the environment and if found
copied to the table of variables.

Variable functions are available: The name of the function must be followed by
at least one space and the at least one argument.  The following functions are
available:

Return a value described by the argument.  Available arguments are:

The current working directory.	The gnupg homedir.  GnuPG's system
configuration directory.  GnuPG's binary directory.  GnuPG's library
directory.  GnuPG's library directory for executable files.  GnuPG's data
directory.  The PID of the current server. Command /serverpid must have been
given to return a useful value.

Remove C-style escapes from args.  Note that \0 and \x00 terminate the
returned string implicitly.  The string to be converted are the entire
arguments right behind the delimiting space of the function name.

Remove percent style escaping from args.  Note that %00 terminates the string
implicitly.  The string to be converted are the entire arguments right behind
the delimiting space of the function name. unpercent+ also maps plus signs to
a spaces.

Escape the args using percent style escaping.  Tabs, formfeeds, linefeeds,
carriage returns and colons are escaped. percent+ also maps spaces to plus
signs.

Assume arg is an integer and evaluate it using strtol.	Return the gpg-error
error code, error source or a formatted string with the error code and error
source.


Evaluate all arguments as long integers using strtol and apply this operator.
A division by zero yields an empty string.

Evaluate all arguments as long integers using strtol and apply the logical
operators NOT, OR or AND.  The NOT operator works on the last argument only.




Use content of the variable var for inquiries with name.  name may be an
asterisk (*) to match any inquiry.


Use content of file for inquiries with name.  name may be an asterisk (*) to
match any inquiry.

Run prog for inquiries matching name and pass the entire line to it as command
line arguments.

Write all data lines from the server to the file name.	The file is opened for
writing and created if it does not exists.  An existing file is first
truncated to 0.	 The data written to the file fully decoded.  Using a single
dash for name writes to stdout.	 The file is kept open until a new file is set
using this command or this command is used without an argument.

Print all definitions

Delete all definitions

Open file in mode (which needs to be a valid fopen mode string) and send the
file descriptor to the server.	This is usually followed by a command like
INPUT FD to set the input source for other commands.

Not yet implemented.

Open file and assign the file descriptor to var.  Warning: This command is
experimental and might change in future versions.

Close the file descriptor fd.  Warning: This command is experimental and might
change in future versions.

Show a list of open files.

Send the Assuan command GETINFO pid to the server and store the returned PID
for internal purposes.

Sleep for a second.

Same as the command line option --hex.

Same as the command line option --decode.

Enable and disable variable substitution.  It defaults to disabled unless the
command line option --subst has been used.  If /subst as been enabled once,
leading whitespace is removed from input lines which makes scripts easier to
read.

These commands provide a way for executing loops.  All lines between the while
and the corresponding end are executed as long as the evaluation of condition
yields a non-zero value or is the string true or yes.  The evaluation is done
by passing condition to the strtol function.  Example:

  /subst
  /let i 3
  /while $i
    /echo loop counter is $i
    /let i ${- $i 1}
  /end

These commands provide a way for conditional execution.	 All lines between the
if and the corresponding end are executed only if the evaluation of condition
yields a non-zero value or is the string true or yes.  The evaluation is done
by passing condition to the strtol function.

Run commands from file.

Clear the command history.

Terminate the connection and the program.

Print a list of available control commands.



gpg-agent(1), scdaemon(1)

The full documentation for this tool is maintained as a Texinfo manual.	 If
GnuPG and the info program are properly installed at your site, the command

info gnupg

should give you access to the complete manual including a menu structure and
an index.




