- OpenPGP encryption and signing tool



gpg is the OpenPGP part of the GNU Privacy Guard (GnuPG). It is a tool to
provide digital encryption and signing services using the OpenPGP standard.
gpg features complete key management and all the bells and whistles you would
expect from a full OpenPGP implementation.

There are two main versions of GnuPG: GnuPG 1.x and GnuPG 2.x.	GnuPG 2.x
supports modern encryption algorithms and thus should be preferred over GnuPG
1.x.  You only need to use GnuPG 1.x if your platform doesn't support GnuPG
2.x, or you need support for some features that GnuPG 2.x has deprecated,
e.g., decrypting data created with PGP-2 keys.

If you are looking for version 1 of GnuPG, you may find that version installed
under the name gpg1.







The program returns 0 if there are no severe errors, 1 if at least a signature
was bad, and other error codes for fatal errors.

Note that signature verification requires exact knowledge of what has been
signed and by whom it has been signed.	Using only the return code is thus not
an appropriate way to verify a signature by a script.  Either make proper use
or the status codes or use the gpgv tool which has been designed to make
signature verification easy for scripts.


Use a good password for your user account and make sure that all security
issues are always fixed on your machine.  Also employ diligent physical
protection to your machine.  Consider to use a good passphrase as a last
resort protection to your secret key in the case your machine gets stolen.  It
is important that your secret key is never leaked.  Using an easy to carry
around token or smartcard with the secret key is often a advisable.

If you are going to verify detached signatures, make sure that the program
knows about it; either give both filenames on the command line or use ‘-’ to
specify STDIN.

For scripted or other unattended use of gpg make sure to use the machine-
parseable interface and not the default interface which is intended for direct
use by humans.	The machine-parseable interface provides a stable and well
documented API independent of the locale or future changes of gpg.  To enable
this interface use the options --with-colons and --status-fd.  For certain
operations the option --command-fd may come handy too.	See this man page and
the file ‘DETAILS’ for the specification of the interface.  Note that the
GnuPG ``info'' pages as well as the PDF version of the GnuPG manual features a
chapter on unattended use of GnuPG.  As an alternative the library GPGME can
be used as a high-level abstraction on top of that interface.


GnuPG tries to be a very flexible implementation of the OpenPGP standard. In
particular, GnuPG implements many of the optional parts of the standard, such
as the SHA-512 hash, and the ZLIB and BZIP2 compression algorithms. It is
important to be aware that not all OpenPGP programs implement these optional
algorithms and that by forcing their use via the --cipher-algo, --digest-algo,
--cert-digest-algo, or --compress-algo options in GnuPG, it is possible to
create a perfectly valid OpenPGP message, but one that cannot be read by the
intended recipient.

There are dozens of variations of OpenPGP programs available, and each
supports a slightly different subset of these optional algorithms.  For
example, until recently, no (unhacked) version of PGP supported the BLOWFISH
cipher algorithm. A message using BLOWFISH simply could not be read by a PGP
user. By default, GnuPG uses the standard OpenPGP preferences system that will
always do the right thing and create messages that are usable by all
recipients, regardless of which OpenPGP program they use. Only override this
safe default if you really know what you are doing.

If you absolutely must override the safe default, or if the preferences on a
given key are invalid for some reason, you are far better off using the
--pgp6, --pgp7, or --pgp8 options. These options are safe as they do not force
any particular algorithms in violation of OpenPGP, but rather reduce the
available algorithms to a "PGP-safe" list.


Commands are not distinguished from options except for the fact that only one
command is allowed.  Generally speaking, irrelevant options are silently
ignored, and may not be checked for correctness.

gpg may be run with no commands. In this case it will print a warning perform
a reasonable action depending on the type of file it is given as input (an
encrypted message is decrypted, a signature is verified, a file containing
keys is listed, etc.).

If you run into any problems, please add the option --verbose to the
invocation to see more diagnostics.





 

Print the program version and licensing information.  Note that you cannot
abbreviate this command.

Print a usage message summarizing the most useful command-line options.	 Note
that you cannot arbitrarily abbreviate this command (though you can use its
short form -h).

Print warranty information.

Print a list of all available options and commands.  Note that you cannot
abbreviate this command.



 



Sign a message. This command may be combined with --encrypt (to sign and
encrypt a message), --symmetric (to sign and symmetrically encrypt a message),
or both --encrypt and --symmetric (to sign and encrypt a message that can be
decrypted using a secret key or a passphrase).	The signing key is chosen by
default or can be set explicitly using the --local-user and --default-key
options.

Make a cleartext signature.  The content in a cleartext signature is readable
without any special software. OpenPGP software is only needed to verify the
signature.  cleartext signatures may modify end-of-line whitespace for
platform independence and are not intended to be reversible.  The signing key
is chosen by default or can be set explicitly using the --local-user and
--default-key options.


Make a detached signature.

Encrypt data to one or more public keys. This command may be combined with
--sign (to sign and encrypt a message), --symmetric (to encrypt a message that
can be decrypted using a secret key or a passphrase), or --sign and
--symmetric together (for a signed message that can be decrypted using a
secret key or a passphrase).  --recipient and related options specify which
public keys to use for encryption.

Encrypt with a symmetric cipher using a passphrase. The default symmetric
cipher used is AES-128, but may be chosen with the --cipher-algo option. This
command may be combined with --sign (for a signed and symmetrically encrypted
message), --encrypt (for a message that may be decrypted via a secret key or a
passphrase), or --sign and --encrypt together (for a signed message that may
be decrypted via a secret key or a passphrase).	 gpg caches the passphrase
used for symmetric encryption so that a decrypt operation may not require that
the user needs to enter the passphrase.	 The option --no-symkey-cache can be
used to disable this feature.

Store only (make a simple literal data packet).

Decrypt the file given on the command line (or STDIN if no file is specified)
and write it to STDOUT (or the file specified with --output). If the decrypted
file is signed, the signature is also verified. This command differs from the
default operation, as it never writes to the filename which is included in the
file and it rejects files that don't begin with an encrypted message.

Assume that the first argument is a signed file and verify it without
generating any output.	With no arguments, the signature packet is read from
STDIN.	If only one argument is given, the specified file is expected to
include a complete signature.

With more than one argument, the first argument should specify a file with a
detached signature and the remaining files should contain the signed data. To
read the signed data from STDIN, use ‘-’ as the second filename.  For security
reasons, a detached signature will not read the signed material from STDIN if
not explicitly specified.

Note: If the option --batch is not used, gpg may assume that a single argument
is a file with a detached signature, and it will try to find a matching data
file by stripping certain suffixes.  Using this historical feature to verify a
detached signature is strongly discouraged; you should always specify the data
file explicitly.

Note: When verifying a cleartext signature, gpg verifies only what makes up
the cleartext signed data and not any extra data outside of the cleartext
signature or the header lines directly following the dash marker line.	The
option --output may be used to write out the actual signed data, but there are
other pitfalls with this format as well.  It is suggested to avoid cleartext
signatures in favor of detached signatures.

Note: With option --batch he verification of signatures stops at the first bad
signature.  This is a safe default for unattended processing but sometimes a
status for all signatures is needed.  To override this early bailout use the
option --proc-all-sigs.

Note: To check whether a file was signed by a certain key the option
--assert-signer can be used.  As an alternative the gpgv tool can be used.
gpgv is designed to compare signed data against a list of trusted keys and
returns with success only for a good signature.	 It has its own manual page.


This modifies certain other commands to accept multiple files for processing
on the command line or read from STDIN with each filename on a separate line.
This allows for many files to be processed at once. --multifile may currently
be used along with --verify, --encrypt, and --decrypt. Note that --multifile
--verify may not be used with detached signatures.

Identical to --multifile --verify.

Identical to --multifile --encrypt.

Identical to --multifile --decrypt.

List the specified keys.  If no keys are specified, then all keys from the
configured public keyrings are listed.

Never use the output of this command in scripts or other programs.  The output
is intended only for humans and its format is likely to change.	 The
--with-colons option emits the output in a stable, machine-parseable format,
which is intended for use by scripts and other programs.

List the specified secret keys.	 If no keys are specified, then all known
secret keys are listed.	 A # after the initial tags sec or ssb means that the
secret key or subkey is currently not usable.  We also say that this key has
been taken offline (for example, a primary key can be taken offline by
exporting the key using the command --export-secret-subkeys).  A > after these
tags indicate that the key is stored on a smartcard.  See also --list-keys.

Same as --list-keys, but the key signatures are verified and listed too.  Note
that for performance reasons the revocation status of a signing key is not
shown.	This command has the same effect as using --list-keys with
--with-sig-check.

The status of the verification is indicated by a flag directly following the
"sig" tag (and thus before the flags described below.  A "!" indicates that
the signature has been successfully verified, a "-" denotes a bad signature
and a "%" is used if an error occurred while checking the signature (e.g. a
non supported algorithm).  Signatures where the public key is not available
are not listed; to see their keyids the command --list-sigs can be used.

For each signature listed, there are several flags in between the signature
status flag and keyid.	These flags give additional information about each key
signature.  From left to right, they are the numbers 1-3 for certificate check
level (see --ask-cert-level), "L" for a local or non-exportable signature (see
--lsign-key), "R" for a nonRevocable signature (see the --edit-key command
"nrsign"), "P" for a signature that contains a policy URL (see
--cert-policy-url), "N" for a signature that contains a notation (see
--cert-notation), "X" for an eXpired signature (see --ask-cert-expire), and
the numbers 1-9 or "T" for 10 and above to indicate trust signature levels
(see the --edit-key command "tsign").


Locate the keys given as arguments.  This command basically uses the same
algorithm as used when locating keys for encryption and may thus be used to
see what keys gpg might use.  In particular external methods as defined by
--auto-key-locate are used to locate a key if the arguments comain valid mail
addresses.  Only public keys are listed.

The variant --locate-external-keys does not consider a locally existing key
and can thus be used to force the refresh of a key via the defined external
methods.  If a fingerprint is given and and the methods defined by --auto-key-
locate define LDAP servers, the key is fetched from these resources; defined
non-LDAP keyservers are skipped.


This commands takes OpenPGP keys as input and prints information about them in
the same way the command --list-keys does for locally stored key.  In addition
the list options show-unusable-uids, show-unusable-subkeys, show-notations and
show-policy-urls are also enabled.  As usual for automated processing, this
command should be combined with the option --with-colons.

List all keys (or the specified ones) along with their fingerprints. This is
the same output as --list-keys but with the additional output of a line with
the fingerprint. May also be combined with --check-signatures.	If this
command is given twice, the fingerprints of all secondary keys are listed too.
This command also forces pretty printing of fingerprints if the keyid format
has been set to "none".

List only the sequence of packets.  This command is only useful for debugging.
When used with option --verbose the actual MPI values are dumped and not only
their lengths.	Note that the output of this command may change with new
releases.


Present a menu to work with a smartcard. The subcommand "help" provides an
overview on available commands. For a detailed description, please see the
Card HOWTO at https://gnupg.org/documentation/howtos.html#GnuPG-cardHOWTO .
Please note that the command "openpgp" can be used to switch to the OpenPGP
application of cards which by default are presenting another application (e.g.
PIV).

Show the content of the smart card.

Present a menu to allow changing the PIN of a smartcard. This functionality is
also available as the subcommand "passwd" with the --edit-card command.

Remove key from the public keyring. In batch mode either --yes is required or
the key must be specified by fingerprint. This is a safeguard against
accidental deletion of multiple keys.  If the exclamation mark syntax is used
with the fingerprint of a subkey only that subkey is deleted; if the
exclamation mark is used with the fingerprint of the primary key the entire
public key is deleted.

Remove key from the secret keyring. In batch mode the key must be specified by
fingerprint.  The option --yes can be used to advise gpg-agent not to request
a confirmation.	 This extra pre-caution is done because gpg can't be sure that
the secret key (as controlled by gpg-agent) is only used for the given OpenPGP
public key.  If the exclamation mark syntax is used with the fingerprint of a
subkey only the secret part of that subkey is deleted; if the exclamation mark
is used with the fingerprint of the primary key only the secret part of the
primary key is deleted.


Same as --delete-key, but if a secret key exists, it will be removed first. In
batch mode the key must be specified by fingerprint.  The option --yes can be
used to advise gpg-agent not to request a confirmation.

Either export all keys from all keyrings (default keyring and those registered
via option --keyring), or if at least one name is given, those of the given
name. The exported keys are written to STDOUT or to the file given with option
--output.  Use together with --armor to mail those keys.

Similar to --export but sends the keys to a keyserver.	Fingerprints may be
used instead of key IDs.  Don't send your complete keyring to a keyserver ---
select only those keys which are new or changed by you.	 If no keyIDs are
given, gpg does nothing.

Take care: Keyservers are by design write only systems and thus it is not
possible to ever delete keys once they have been send to a keyserver.


Same as --export, but exports the secret keys instead.	The exported keys are
written to STDOUT or to the file given with option --output.  This command is
often used along with the option --armor to allow for easy printing of the key
for paper backup; however the external tool paperkey does a better job of
creating backups on paper.  Note that exporting a secret key can be a security
risk if the exported keys are sent over an insecure channel.

The second form of the command has the special property to render the secret
part of the primary key useless; this is a GNU extension to OpenPGP and other
implementations can not be expected to successfully import such a key.	Its
intended use is in generating a full key with an additional signing subkey on
a dedicated machine.  This command then exports the key without the primary
key to the main machine.

GnuPG may ask you to enter the passphrase for the key.	This is required,
because the internal protection method of the secret key is different from the
one specified by the OpenPGP protocol.

This command is used to export a key in the OpenSSH public key format.	It
requires the specification of one key by the usual means and exports the
latest valid subkey which has an authentication capability to STDOUT or to the
file given with option --output.  That output can directly be added to ssh's
‘authorized_key’ file.

By specifying the key to export using a key ID or a fingerprint suffixed with
an exclamation mark (!), a specific subkey or the primary key can be exported.
This does not even require that the key has the authentication capability flag
set.

Import/merge keys. This adds the given keys to the keyring. The fast version
is currently just a synonym.

There are a few other options which control how this command works.  Most
notable here is the --import-options merge-only option which does not insert
new keys but does only the merging of new signatures, user-IDs and subkeys.

Import the keys with the given keyIDs from a keyserver.

Request updates from a keyserver for keys that already exist on the local
keyring. This is useful for updating a key with the latest signatures, user
IDs, etc. Calling this with no arguments will refresh the entire keyring.

Search the keyserver for the given names. Multiple names given here will be
joined together to create the search string for the keyserver.	Note that
keyservers search for names in a different and simpler way than gpg does.  The
best choice is to use a mail address.  Due to data privacy reasons keyservers
may even not even allow searching by user id or mail address and thus may only
return results when being used with the --recv-key command to search by key
fingerprint or keyid.

Retrieve keys located at the specified URIs. Note that different installations
of GnuPG may support different protocols (HTTP, FTP, LDAP, etc.).  When using
HTTPS the system provided root certificates are used by this command.

Do trust database maintenance. This command iterates over all keys and builds
the Web of Trust. This is an interactive command because it may have to ask
for the "ownertrust" values for keys. The user has to give an estimation of
how far she trusts the owner of the displayed key to correctly certify (sign)
other keys. GnuPG only asks for the ownertrust value if it has not yet been
assigned to a key. Using the --edit-key menu, the assigned value can be
changed at any time.

Do trust database maintenance without user interaction. From time to time the
trust database must be updated so that expired keys or signatures and the
resulting changes in the Web of Trust can be tracked. Normally, GnuPG will
calculate when this is required and do it automatically unless
--no-auto-check-trustdb is set. This command can be used to force a trust
database check at any time. The processing is identical to that of
--update-trustdb but it skips keys with a not yet defined "ownertrust".

For use with cron jobs, this command can be used together with --batch in
which case the trust database check is done only if a check is needed. To
force a run even in batch mode add the option --yes.


Send the ownertrust values to STDOUT. This is useful for backup purposes as
these values are the only ones which can't be re-created from a corrupted
trustdb.  Example:
  gpg --export-ownertrust > otrust.txt


Update the trustdb with the ownertrust values stored in files (or STDIN if not
given); existing values will be overwritten.  In case of a severely damaged
trustdb and if you have a recent backup of the ownertrust values (e.g. in the
file ‘otrust.txt’), you may re-create the trustdb using these commands:
  cd ~/.gnupg
  rm trustdb.gpg
  gpg --import-ownertrust < otrust.txt


When updating from version 1.0.6 to 1.0.7 this command should be used to
create signature caches in the keyring. It might be handy in other situations
too.

Print message digest of algorithm algo for all given files or STDIN.  With the
second form (or a deprecated "*" for algo) digests for all available
algorithms are printed.

Emit count random bytes of the given quality level 0, 1 or 2. If count is not
given or zero, an endless sequence of random bytes will be emitted.  If used
with --armor the output will be base64 encoded.	 The special level 16 uses a
quality level of 1 and outputs an endless stream of hex-encoded octets.	 The
special level 30 outputs random as 30 zBase-32 characters.

Use the source, Luke :-). The output format is subject to change with any
release.


Pack or unpack an arbitrary input into/from an OpenPGP ASCII armor.  This is a
GnuPG extension to OpenPGP and in general not very useful.  The --dearmor
command can also be used to dearmor PEM armors.

This option modifies the command --decrypt to output the original message with
the encryption layer removed.  Thus the output will be an OpenPGP data
structure which often means a signed OpenPGP message.  Note that this option
may or may not remove a compression layer which is often found beneath the
encryption layer.

Set the TOFU policy for all the bindings associated with the specified keys.
For more information about the meaning of the policies, see: [trust-model-
tofu].	The keys may be specified either by their fingerprint (preferred) or
their keyid.





 

This section explains the main commands for key management.


This is a simple command to generate a standard key with one user id.  In
contrast to --generate-key the key is generated directly without the need to
answer a bunch of prompts.  Unless the option --yes is given, the key creation
will be canceled if the given user id already exists in the keyring.

If invoked directly on the console without any special options an answer to a
``Continue?'' style confirmation prompt is required.  In case the user id
already exists in the keyring a second prompt to force the creation of the key
will show up.

If algo or usage are given, only the primary key is created and no prompts are
shown.	To specify an expiration date but still create a primary and subkey
use ``default'' or ``future-default'' for algo and ``default'' for usage.  For
a description of these optional arguments see the command --quick-add-key.
The usage accepts also the value ``cert'' which can be used to create a
certification only primary key; the default is to a create certification and
signing key.

The expire argument can be used to specify an expiration date for the key.
Several formats are supported; commonly the ISO formats ``YYYY-MM-DD'' or
``YYYYMMDDThhmmss'' are used.  To make the key expire in N seconds, N days, N
weeks, N months, or N years use ``seconds=N'', ``Nd'', ``Nw'', ``Nm'', or
``Ny'' respectively.  Not specifying a value, or using ``-'' results in a key
expiring in a reasonable default interval.  The values ``never'', ``none'' can
be used for no expiration date.

If this command is used with --batch, --pinentry-mode has been set to
loopback, and one of the passphrase options (--passphrase, --passphrase-fd, or
--passphrase-file) is used, the supplied passphrase is used for the new key
and the agent does not ask for it.  To create a key without any protection
--passphrase '' may be used.

To create an OpenPGP key from the keys available on the currently inserted
smartcard, the special string ``card'' can be used for algo.  If the card
features an encryption and a signing key, gpg will figure them out and creates
an OpenPGP key consisting of the usual primary key and one subkey.  This works
only with certain smartcards.  Note that the interactive --full-gen-key
command allows one to do the same but with greater flexibility in the
selection of the smartcard keys.

Note that it is possible to create a primary key and a subkey using non-
default algorithms by using ``default'' and changing the default parameters
using the option --default-new-key-algo.

With two arguments given, directly set the expiration time of the primary key
identified by fpr to expire.  To remove the expiration time 0 can be used.
With three arguments and the third given as an asterisk, the expiration time
of all non-revoked and not yet expired subkeys are set to expire.  With more
than two arguments and a list of fingerprints given for subfprs, all non-
revoked subkeys matching these fingerprints are set to expire.


Directly add a subkey to the key identified by the fingerprint fpr.  Without
the optional arguments an encryption subkey is added.  If any of the arguments
are given a more specific subkey is added.

algo may be any of the supported algorithms or curve names given in the format
as used by key listings.  To use the default algorithm the string ``default''
or ``-'' can be used.  Supported algorithms are ``rsa'', ``dsa'', ``elg'',
``ed25519'', ``cv25519'', and other ECC curves.	 For example the string
``rsa'' adds an RSA key with the default key length; a string ``rsa4096''
requests that the key length is 4096 bits.  The string ``future-default'' is
an alias for the algorithm which will likely be used as default algorithm in
future versions of gpg.	 To list the supported ECC curves the command gpg
--with-colons --list-config curve can be used.

Depending on the given algo the subkey may either be an encryption subkey or a
signing subkey.	 If an algorithm is capable of signing and encryption and such
a subkey is desired, a usage string must be given.  This string is either
``default'' or ``-'' to keep the default or a comma delimited list (or space
delimited list) of keywords: ``sign'' for a signing subkey, ``auth'' for an
authentication subkey, and ``encr'' for an encryption subkey (``encrypt'' can
be used as alias for ``encr'').	 The valid combinations depend on the
algorithm.

The expire argument can be used to specify an expiration date for the key.
Several formats are supported; commonly the ISO formats ``YYYY-MM-DD'' or
``YYYYMMDDThhmmss'' are used.  To make the key expire in N seconds, N days, N
weeks, N months, or N years use ``seconds=N'', ``Nd'', ``Nw'', ``Nm'', or
``Ny'' respectively.  Not specifying a value, or using ``-'' results in a key
expiring in a reasonable default interval.  The values ``never'', ``none'' can
be used for no expiration date.

Directly add an Additional Decryption Subkey to the key identified by the
fingerprint fpr.  adskfpr is the fingerprint of another key's encryption
subkey.	 A subkey is commonly used here because by default a primary key has
no encryption capability.  Use the option --with-subkey-fingerprint with a
list command to display the subkey fingerprints.  If the string "default" is
used for adskfpr all missing ADSKs configured with --default-new-key-adsk are
added.

Generate a new key pair using the current default parameters.  This is the
standard command to create a new key.  In addition to the key a revocation
certificate is created and stored in the ‘openpgp-revocs.d’ directory below
the GnuPG home directory.

Generate a new key pair with dialogs for all options.  This is an extended
version of --generate-key.

There is also a feature which allows you to create keys in batch mode. See the
manual section ``Unattended key generation'' on how to use this.


Generate a revocation certificate for the complete key.	 To only revoke a
subkey or a key signature, use the --edit command.

This command merely creates the revocation certificate so that it can be used
to revoke the key if that is ever needed.  To actually revoke a key the
created revocation certificate needs to be merged with the key to revoke.
This is done by importing the revocation certificate using the --import
command.  Then the revoked key needs to be published, which is best done by
sending the key to a keyserver (command --send-key) and by exporting
(--export) it to a file which is then send to frequent communication partners.


Generate a designated revocation certificate for a key. This allows a user
(with the permission of the keyholder) to revoke someone else's key.


Present a menu which enables you to do most of the key management related
tasks.	It expects the specification of a key on the command line.


Toggle selection of user ID or photographic user ID with index n.  Use * to
select all and 0 to deselect all.

Toggle selection of subkey with index n or key ID n.  Use * to select all and
0 to deselect all.

Make a signature on key of user name. If the key is not yet signed by the
default user (or the users given with -u), the program displays the
information of the key again, together with its fingerprint and asks whether
it should be signed. This question is repeated for all users specified with
-u.

Same as "sign" but the signature is marked as non-exportable and will
therefore never be used by others. This may be used to make keys valid only in
the local environment.

Same as "sign" but the signature is marked as non-revocable and can therefore
never be revoked.

Make a trust signature. This is a signature that combines the notions of
certification (like a regular signature), and trust (like the "trust"
command). It is generally useful in distinct communities or groups to
implement the concept of a Trusted Introducer.	For more information please
read the sections ``Trust Signature'' and ``Regular Expression'' in RFC-4880.

Note that "l" (for local / non-exportable), "nr" (for non-revocable, and "t"
(for trust) may be freely mixed and prefixed to "sign" to create a signature
of any type desired.

If the option --only-sign-text-ids is specified, then any non-text based user
ids (e.g., photo IDs) will not be selected for signing.


Delete a signature. Note that it is not possible to retract a signature, once
it has been send to the public (i.e. to a keyserver).  In that case you better
use revsig.

Revoke a signature. For every signature which has been generated by one of the
secret keys, GnuPG asks whether a revocation certificate should be generated.

Check the signatures on all selected user IDs.	With the extra option selfsig
only self-signatures are shown.

Create an additional user ID.

Create a photographic user ID. This will prompt for a JPEG file that will be
embedded into the user ID. Note that a very large JPEG will make for a very
large key. Also note that some programs will display your JPEG unchanged
(GnuPG), and some programs will scale it to fit in a dialog box (PGP).

Display the selected photographic user ID.

Delete a user ID or photographic user ID.  Note that it is not possible to
retract a user id, once it has been send to the public (i.e. to a keyserver).
In that case you better use revuid.

Revoke a user ID or photographic user ID.

Flag the current user id as the primary one, removes the primary user id flag
from all other user ids and sets the timestamp of all affected self-signatures
one second ahead. Note that setting a photo user ID as primary makes it
primary over other photo user IDs, and setting a regular user ID as primary
makes it primary over other regular user IDs.

Set a preferred keyserver for the specified user ID(s). This allows other
users to know where you prefer they get your key from. See --keyserver-options
honor-keyserver-url for more on how this works.	 Setting a value of "none"
removes an existing preferred keyserver.

Set a name=value notation for the specified user ID(s). See --cert-notation
for more on how this works. Setting a value of "none" removes all notations,
setting a notation prefixed with a minus sign (-) removes that notation, and
setting a notation name (without the =value) prefixed with a minus sign
removes all notations with that name.

List preferences from the selected user ID. This shows the actual preferences,
without including any implied preferences.

More verbose preferences listing for the selected user ID. This shows the
preferences in effect by including the implied preferences of 3DES (cipher),
SHA-1 (digest), and Uncompressed (compression) if they are not already
included in the preference list. In addition, the preferred keyserver and
signature notations (if any) are shown.

Set the list of user ID preferences to string for all (or just the selected)
user IDs. Calling setpref with no arguments sets the preference list to the
default (either built-in or set via --default-preference-list), and calling
setpref with "none" as the argument sets an empty preference list. Use gpg
--version to get a list of available algorithms. Note that while you can
change the preferences on an attribute user ID (aka "photo ID"), GnuPG does
not select keys via attribute user IDs so these preferences will not be used
by GnuPG.  Note that an unattended version of this command is available as
--quick-update-pref.

When setting preferences, you should list the algorithms in the order which
you'd like to see them used by someone else when encrypting a message to your
key.  If you don't include 3DES, it will be automatically added at the end.
Note that there are many factors that go into choosing an algorithm (for
example, your key may not be the only recipient), and so the remote OpenPGP
application being used to send to you may or may not follow your exact chosen
order for a given message.  It will, however, only choose an algorithm that is
present on the preference list of every recipient key.	See also the
INTEROPERABILITY WITH OTHER OPENPGP PROGRAMS section below.

Add a subkey to this key.

Generate a subkey on a card and add it to this key.

Transfer the selected secret subkey (or the primary key if no subkey has been
selected) to a smartcard. The secret key in the keyring will be replaced by a
stub if the key could be stored successfully on the card and you use the save
command later. Only certain key types may be transferred to the card. A sub
menu allows you to select on what card to store the key. Note that it is not
possible to get that key back from the card - if the card gets broken your
secret key will be lost unless you have a backup somewhere.

Restore the given file to a card. This command may be used to restore a backup
key (as generated during card initialization) to a new card. In almost all
cases this will be the encryption key. You should use this command only with
the corresponding public key and make sure that the file given as argument is
indeed the backup to restore. You should then select 2 to restore as
encryption key.	 You will first be asked to enter the passphrase of the backup
key and then for the Admin PIN of the card.

Transfer the selected secret subkey (or the primary key if no subkey has been
selected) to TPM form.	The secret key in the keyring will be replaced by the
TPM representation of that key, which can only be read by the particular TPM
that created it (so the keyfile now becomes locked to the laptop containing
the TPM).  Only certain key types may be transferred to the TPM (all TPM 2.0
systems are mandated to have the rsa2048 and nistp256 algorithms but newer
TPMs may have more). Note that the key itself is not transferred into the TPM,
merely encrypted by the TPM in-place, so if the keyfile is deleted, the key
will be lost.  Once transferred to TPM representation, the key file can never
be converted back to non-TPM form and the key will die when the TPM does, so
you should first have a backup on secure offline storage of the actual secret
key file before conversion.  It is essential to use the physical system TPM
that you have rw permission on the TPM resource manager device (/dev/tpmrm0).
Usually this means you must be a member of the tss group.

Remove a subkey (secondary key). Note that it is not possible to retract a
subkey, once it has been send to the public (i.e. to a keyserver).  In that
case you better use revkey.  Also note that this only deletes the public part
of a key.

Revoke a subkey.

Change the key or subkey expiration time. If a subkey is selected, the
expiration time of this subkey will be changed. With no selection, the key
expiration of the primary key is changed.

Change the owner trust value for the key. This updates the trust-db
immediately and no save is required.

Disable or enable an entire key. A disabled key can not normally be used for
encryption.

Add a designated revoker to the key. This takes one optional argument:
"sensitive". If a designated revoker is marked as sensitive, it will not be
exported by default (see export-options).

Add an Additional Decryption Subkey.  The user is asked to enter the
fingerprint of another encryption subkey.  Note that the exact fingerprint of
another key's encryption subkey needs to be entered.  This is because commonly
the primary key has no encryption capability.  Use the option
--with-subkey-fingerprint with a list command to display the subkey
fingerprints.

Change the passphrase of the secret key.

This is dummy command which exists only for backward compatibility.

Compact (by removing all signatures except the selfsig) any user ID that is no
longer usable (e.g. revoked, or expired). Then, remove any signatures that are
not usable by the trust calculations.  Specifically, this removes any
signature that does not validate, any signature that is superseded by a later
signature, revoked signatures, and signatures issued by keys that are not
present on the keyring.

Make the key as small as possible. This removes all signatures from each user
ID except for the most recent self-signature.

Change the usage flags (capabilities) of the primary key or of subkeys.	 These
usage flags (e.g. Certify, Sign, Authenticate, Encrypt) are set during key
creation.  Sometimes it is useful to have the opportunity to change them (for
example to add Authenticate) after they have been created.  Please take care
when doing this; the allowed usage flags depend on the key algorithm.

Add cross-certification signatures to signing subkeys that may not currently
have them. Cross-certification signatures protect against a subtle attack
against signing subkeys. See --require-cross-certification.  All new keys
generated have this signature by default, so this command is only useful to
bring older keys up to date.

Save all changes to the keyring and quit.

Quit the program without updating the keyring.

The listing shows you the key with its secondary keys and all user IDs.	 The
primary user ID is indicated by a dot, and selected keys or user IDs are
indicated by an asterisk.  The trust value is displayed with the primary key:
"trust" is the assigned owner trust and "validity" is the calculated validity
of the key.  Validity values are also displayed for all user IDs.  For
possible values of trust, see: [trust-values].

Signs a public key with your secret key. This is a shortcut version of the
subcommand "sign" from --edit-key.

Signs a public key with your secret key but marks it as non-exportable. This
is a shortcut version of the subcommand "lsign" from --edit-key.

Directly sign a key from the passphrase without any further user interaction.
The fpr must be the verified primary fingerprint of a key in the local
keyring. If no names are given, all useful user ids are signed; with given
[names] only useful user ids matching one of these names are signed.  By
default, or if a name is prefixed with a '*', a case insensitive substring
match is used.	If a name is prefixed with a '=' a case sensitive exact match
is done.

The command --quick-lsign-key marks the signatures as non-exportable.  If such
a non-exportable signature already exists the --quick-sign-key turns it into a
exportable signature.  If you need to update an existing signature, for
example to add or change notation data, you need to use the option
--force-sign-key.

This command uses reasonable defaults and thus does not provide the full
flexibility of the "sign" subcommand from --edit-key.  Its intended use is to
help unattended key signing by utilizing a list of verified fingerprints.

This command adds a new user id to an existing key.  In contrast to the
interactive sub-command adduid of --edit-key the new-user-id is added verbatim
with only leading and trailing white space removed, it is expected to be UTF-8
encoded, and no checks on its form are applied.

This command revokes a user ID on an existing key.  It cannot be used to
revoke the last user ID on key (some non-revoked user ID must remain), with
revocation reason ``User ID is no longer valid''.  If you want to specify a
different revocation reason, or to supply supplementary revocation text, you
should use the interactive sub-command revuid of --edit-key.

This command revokes the key signatures made by signing-fpr from the key
specified by the fingerprint fpr.  With names given only the signatures on
user ids of the key matching any of the given names are affected (see
--quick-sign-key).  If a revocation already exists a notice is printed instead
of creating a new revocation; no error is returned in this case.  Note that
key signature revocations may be superseded by a newer key signature and in
turn again revoked.

This command sets or updates the primary user ID flag on an existing key.
user-id specifies the key and primary-user-id the user ID which shall be
flagged as the primary user ID.	 The primary user ID flag is removed from all
other user ids and the timestamp of all affected self-signatures is set one
second ahead.

This command updates the preference list of the key to the current default
value (either built-in or set via --default-preference-list).  This is the
unattended version of using "setpref" in the --key-edit menu without giving a
list.  Note that you can show the preferences in a key listing by using
--list-options show-pref or --list-options show-pref-verbose.  You should also
re-distribute updated keys to your peers.

This command sets the ownertrust of a key and can also be used to set the
disable flag of a key.	This is the unattended version of using "trust",
"disable", or "enable" in the --key-edit menu.


Change the passphrase of the secret key belonging to the certificate specified
as user-id.  This is a shortcut for the sub-command passwd of the --edit-key
menu.  When using together with the option --dry-run this will not actually
change the passphrase but check that the current passphrase is correct.





gpg features a bunch of options to control the exact behaviour and to change
the default configuration.


Long options can be put in an options file (default "~/.gnupg/gpg.conf").
Short option names will not work - for example, "armor" is a valid option for
the options file, while "a" is not. Do not write the 2 dashes, but simply the
name of the option and any required arguments. Lines with a hash ('#') as the
first non-white-space character are ignored. Commands may be put in this file
too, but that is not generally useful as the command will execute
automatically with every execution of gpg.

Please remember that option parsing stops as soon as a non-option is
encountered, you can explicitly stop parsing by using the special option --.


 

These options are used to change the configuration and most of them are
usually found in the option file.


Use name as the default key to sign with.  It is suggested to use a
fingerprint or at least a long keyID for name.	If this option is not used,
the default key is the first key found in the secret keyring.  Note that -u or
--local-user overrides this option.  This option may be given multiple times.
In this case, the last key for which a secret key is available is used.	 If
there is no secret key available for any of the specified values, GnuPG will
not emit an error message but continue as if this option wasn't given.


Use name as default recipient if option --recipient is not used and don't ask
if this is a valid one. name must be non-empty and it is suggested to use a
fingerprint for name.

Use the default key as default recipient if option --recipient is not used and
don't ask if this is a valid one. The default key is the first one from the
secret keyring or the one set with --default-key.

Reset --default-recipient and --default-recipient-self.	 Should not be used in
an option file.

Give more information during processing. If used twice, the input data is
listed in detail.

Reset verbose level to 0.  Should not be used in an option file.

Try to be as quiet as possible.	 Should not be used in an option file.

Use batch mode.	 Never ask, do not allow interactive commands.	--no-batch
disables this option.  Note that even with a filename given on the command
line, gpg might still need to read from STDIN (in particular if gpg figures
that the input is a detached signature and no data file has been specified).
Thus if you do not want to feed data via STDIN, you should connect STDIN to
‘/dev/null’.

It is highly recommended to use this option along with the options --status-fd
and --with-colons for any unattended use of gpg.  Should not be used in an
option file.

Make sure that the TTY (terminal) is never used for any output.	 This option
is needed in some cases because GnuPG sometimes prints warnings to the TTY
even if --batch is used.

Assume "yes" on most questions.	 Should not be used in an option file.

Assume "no" on most questions.	Should not be used in an option file.


This option overrides the behaviour of the --batch option to stop signature
verification at the first bad signatures.


A list filter can be used to output only certain keys during key listing
commands. For the available property names, see the description of
--import-filter.


This is a space or comma delimited string that gives options used when listing
keys and signatures (that is, --list-keys, --check-signatures,
--list-public-keys, --list-secret-keys, and the --edit-key functions).
Options can be prepended with a no- (after the two dashes) to give the
opposite meaning.  The options are:


Causes --list-keys, --check-signatures, --list-public-keys, and
--list-secret-keys to display any photo IDs attached to the key.  Defaults to
no. See also --photo-viewer.  Does not work with --with-colons: see
--attribute-fd for the appropriate way to get photo data for scripts and other
frontends.

Show usage information for keys and subkeys in the standard key listing.  This
is a list of letters indicating the allowed usage for a key (E=encryption,
S=signing, C=certification, A=authentication).	Defaults to yes.

Show the ownertrust value for keys also in the standard key listing.  Defaults
to no.

Show policy URLs in the	 --check-signatures listings.  Defaults to no.

Show all, IETF standard, or user-defined signature notations in the
--check-signatures listings. Defaults to no.

Show any preferred keyserver URL in the --check-signatures listings. Defaults
to no.

Display the calculated validity of user IDs during key listings.  Defaults to
yes.

Show revoked and expired user IDs in key listings. Defaults to no.

Show revoked and expired subkeys in key listings. Defaults to no.

Show key signature made using weak or unsupported algorithms.

Display the keyring name at the head of key listings to show which keyring a
given key resides on. Defaults to no.

Show signature expiration dates (if any) during --check-signatures listings.
Defaults to no.

Include signature subpackets in the key listing. This option can take an
optional argument list of the subpackets to list. If no argument is passed,
list all subpackets. Defaults to no. This option is only meaningful when using
--with-colons along with --check-signatures.

For each user-id which has a valid mail address print only the fingerprint
followed by the mail address.

With --list-sigs and --check-sigs sort the signatures by keyID and creation
time to make it easier to view the history of these signatures.	 The self-
signature is also listed before other signatures. Defaults to yes.  This
option has no effect in -with-colons mode.


This is a space or comma delimited string that gives options used when
verifying signatures. Options can be prepended with a `no-' to give the
opposite meaning. The options are:


Display any photo IDs present on the key that issued the signature.  Defaults
to no. See also --photo-viewer.

Show policy URLs in the signature being verified. Defaults to yes.

Show all, IETF standard, or user-defined signature notations in the signature
being verified. Defaults to IETF standard.

Show any preferred keyserver URL in the signature being verified.  Defaults to
yes.

Display the calculated validity of the user IDs on the key that issued the
signature. Defaults to yes.

Show revoked and expired user IDs during signature verification.  Defaults to
no.

Show only the primary user ID during signature verification.  That is all the
AKA lines as well as photo Ids are not shown with the signature verification
status.


Enable the creation of RSA secret keys as large as 8192 bit.  Note: 8192 bit
is more than is generally recommended.	These large keys don't significantly
improve security, but they are more expensive to use, and their signatures and
certifications are larger.  This option is only available if the binary was
build with large-secmem support.

Enable hash truncation for all DSA keys even for old DSA Keys up to 1024 bit.
This is also the default with --openpgp.  Note that older versions of GnuPG
also required this flag to allow the generation of DSA larger than 1024 bit.

This is the command line that should be run to view a photo ID. "%i" will be
expanded to a filename containing the photo. "%I" does the same, except the
file will not be deleted once the viewer exits.	 Other flags are "%k" for the
key ID, "%K" for the long key ID, "%f" for the key fingerprint, "%t" for the
extension of the image type (e.g. "jpg"), "%T" for the MIME type of the image
(e.g. "image/jpeg"), "%v" for the single-character calculated validity of the
image being viewed (e.g. "f"), "%V" for the calculated validity as a string
(e.g.  "full"), "%U" for a base32 encoded hash of the user ID, and "%%" for an
actual percent sign. If neither %i or %I are present, then the photo will be
supplied to the viewer on standard input.

On Unix the default viewer is xloadimage -fork -quiet -title 'KeyID 0x%k'
STDIN with a fallback to display -title 'KeyID 0x%k' %i and finally to
xdg-open %i.  On Windows !ShellExecute 400 %i is used; here the command is a
meta command to use that API call followed by a wait time in milliseconds
which is used to give the viewer time to read the temporary image file before
gpg deletes it again.  Note that if your image viewer program is not secure,
then executing it from gpg does not make it secure.

Sets a list of directories to search for photo viewers If not provided photo
viewers use the PATH environment variable.

Add file to the current list of keyrings. If file begins with a tilde and a
slash, these are replaced by the $HOME directory. If the filename does not
contain a slash, it is assumed to be in the GnuPG home directory ("~/.gnupg"
unless --homedir or $GNUPGHOME is used).

Note that this adds a keyring to the current list. If the intent is to use the
specified keyring alone, use --keyring along with --no-default-keyring.

If the option --no-keyring has been used no keyrings will be used at all.

Note that if the option use-keyboxd is enabled in ‘common.conf’, no keyrings
are used at all and keys are all maintained by the keyboxd process in its own
database.

This is a varian of --keyring and designates file as the primary public
keyring. This means that newly imported keys (via --import or keyserver
--recv-from) will go to this keyring.


This is an obsolete option and ignored.	 All secret keys are stored in the
‘private-keys-v1.d’ directory below the GnuPG home directory.

Use file instead of the default trustdb. If file begins with a tilde and a
slash, these are replaced by the $HOME directory. If the filename does not
contain a slash, it is assumed to be in the GnuPG home directory (‘~/.gnupg’
if --homedir or $GNUPGHOME is not used).

Set the name of the home directory to dir. If this option is not used, the
home directory defaults to ‘~/.gnupg’.	It is only recognized when given on
the command line.  It also overrides any home directory stated through the
environment variable ‘GNUPGHOME’ or (on Windows systems) by means of the
Registry entry HKCU\Software\GNU\GnuPG:HomeDir.

On Windows systems it is possible to install GnuPG as a portable application.
In this case only this command line option is considered, all other ways to
set a home directory are ignored.


Set the name of the native character set. This is used to convert some
informational strings like user IDs to the proper UTF-8 encoding.  Note that
this has nothing to do with the character set of data to be encrypted or
signed; GnuPG does not recode user-supplied data. If this option is not used,
the default character set is determined from the current locale. A verbosity
level of 3 shows the chosen set.  This option should not be used on Windows.
Valid values for name are:


This is the Latin 1 set.

The Latin 2 set.

This is currently an alias for the Latin 1 set.

The usual Russian set (RFC-1489).

Bypass all translations and assume that the OS uses native UTF-8 encoding.

Assume that command line arguments are given as UTF-8 strings. The default
(--no-utf8-strings) is to assume that arguments are encoded in the character
set as specified by --display-charset. These options affect all following
arguments. Both options may be used multiple times.  This option should not be
used in an option file.

This option has no effect on Windows.  There the internal used UTF-8 encoding
is translated for console input and output.  The command line arguments are
expected as Unicode and translated to UTF-8.  Thus when calling this program
from another, make sure to use the Unicode version of CreateProcess.


Read options from file and do not try to read them from the default options
file in the homedir (see --homedir). This option is ignored if used in an
options file.

Shortcut for --options /dev/null. This option is detected before an attempt to
open an option file.  Using this option will also prevent the creation of a
‘~/.gnupg’ homedir.

Set compression level to n for the ZIP and ZLIB compression algorithms. The
default is to use the default compression level of zlib (normally 6).
--bzip2-compress-level sets the compression level for the BZIP2 compression
algorithm (defaulting to 6 as well). This is a different option from
--compress-level since BZIP2 uses a significant amount of memory for each
additional compression level.

Option -z sets both. A value of 0 for n disables compression.  A value of -1
forces compression using the default level.  Option --no-compress is identical
to -z0.

Except for the --store command compression is always used unless gpg detects
that the input is already compressed.  To inhibit the use of compression use
-z0 or --no-compress; to force compression use -z-1 or option z with another
compression level than the default as indicated by -1.	Note that this
overriding of the default deection works only with z and not with the long
variant of this option.


Use a different decompression method for BZIP2 compressed files. This
alternate method uses a bit more than half the memory, but also runs at half
the speed. This is useful under extreme low memory circumstances when the file
was originally compressed at a high --bzip2-compress-level.


Older version of Windows cannot handle filenames with more than one dot.
--mangle-dos-filenames causes GnuPG to replace (rather than add to) the
extension of an output filename to avoid this problem. This option is off by
default and has no effect on non-Windows platforms.

When making a key signature, prompt for a certification level. If this option
is not specified, the certification level used is set via
--default-cert-level. See --default-cert-level for information on the specific
levels and how they are used. --no-ask-cert-level disables this option. This
option defaults to no.

The default to use for the check level when signing a key.

0 means you make no particular claim as to how carefully you verified the key.

1 means you believe the key is owned by the person who claims to own it but
you could not, or did not verify the key at all. This is useful for a
"persona" verification, where you sign the key of a pseudonymous user.

2 means you did casual verification of the key. For example, this could mean
that you verified the key fingerprint and checked the user ID on the key
against a photo ID.

3 means you did extensive verification of the key. For example, this could
mean that you verified the key fingerprint with the owner of the key in
person, and that you checked, by means of a hard to forge document with a
photo ID (such as a passport) that the name of the key owner matches the name
in the user ID on the key, and finally that you verified (by exchange of
email) that the email address on the key belongs to the key owner.

Note that the examples given above for levels 2 and 3 are just that: examples.
In the end, it is up to you to decide just what "casual" and "extensive" mean
to you.

This option defaults to 0 (no particular claim).

When building the trust database, treat any signatures with a certification
level below this as invalid. Defaults to 2, which disregards level 1
signatures. Note that level 0 "no particular claim" signatures are always
accepted.

Assume that the specified key (which should be given as fingerprint) is as
trustworthy as one of your own secret keys. This option is useful if you don't
want to keep your secret keys (or one of them) online but still want to be
able to check the validity of a given recipient's or signator's key.  If the
given key is not locally available but an LDAP keyserver is configured the
missing key is imported from that server.  The value "none" is explicitly
allowed to distinguish between the use of any trusted-key option and no use of
this option at all (e.g. due to the --no-options option).

Add the key specified by fingerprint as a designated revoker to newly created
keys.  If the fingerprint is prefixed with the keyword ``sensitive:'' that
info is normally not exported with the key.  This option may be given several
times to add more than one designated revoker.	If the keyword ``clear'' is
used instead of a fingerprint, all previously fiven fingerprints are
discarded.  Designated revokers are marked on the key as non-revocable.	 Note
that a designated revoker specified using a parameter file will also be added
to the key.

Add the subkey specified by fingerprint as an Additional Decryption Subkey
(ADSK) to newly created keys.  This option may be given several time to add
more than one ADSK.  It is also possible to give several fingerprints
delimited by space or comma as value to this option.  If the keyword ``clear''
is used instead of a fingerprint, all previously specified fingerprints are
discarded (useful to override options given in a config file).	The
fingerprint is expected to specify a subkey and it does not need an
exclamation mark as suffix; it must be given in cmpact format (40 or 64 hex-
digits without any spaces).


Set what trust model GnuPG should follow. The models are:


This is the Web of Trust combined with trust signatures as used in PGP 5.x and
later. This is the default trust model when creating a new trust database.

This is the standard Web of Trust as introduced by PGP 2.


TOFU stands for Trust On First Use.  In this experimental trust model, the
first time a key is seen, it is memorized.  If later another key with a user
id with the same email address is seen, both keys are marked as suspect.  In
that case, the next time either is used, a warning is displayed describing the
conflict, why it might have occurred (either the user generated a new key and
failed to cross sign the old and new keys, the key is forgery, or a man-in-
the-middle attack is being attempted), and the user is prompted to manually
confirm the validity of the key in question.

Because a potential attacker is able to control the email address and thereby
circumvent the conflict detection algorithm by using an email address that is
similar in appearance to a trusted email address, whenever a message is
verified, statistics about the number of messages signed with the key are
shown.	In this way, a user can easily identify attacks using fake keys for
regular correspondents.

When compared with the Web of Trust, TOFU offers significantly weaker security
guarantees.  In particular, TOFU only helps ensure consistency (that is, that
the binding between a key and email address doesn't change).  A major
advantage of TOFU is that it requires little maintenance to use correctly.  To
use the web of trust properly, you need to actively sign keys and mark users
as trusted introducers.	 This is a time-consuming process and anecdotal
evidence suggests that even security-conscious users rarely take the time to
do this thoroughly and instead rely on an ad-hoc TOFU process.

In the TOFU model, policies are associated with bindings between keys and
email addresses (which are extracted from user ids and normalized).  There are
five policies, which can be set manually using the --tofu-policy option.  The
default policy can be set using the --tofu-default-policy option.

The TOFU policies are: auto, good, unknown, bad and ask.  The auto policy is
used by default (unless overridden by --tofu-default-policy) and marks a
binding as marginally trusted.	The good, unknown and bad policies mark a
binding as fully trusted, as having unknown trust or as having trust never,
respectively.  The unknown policy is useful for just using TOFU to detect
conflicts, but to never assign positive trust to a binding.  The final policy,
ask prompts the user to indicate the binding's trust.  If batch mode is
enabled (or input is inappropriate in the context), then the user is not
prompted and the undefined trust level is returned.

This experimental trust model combines TOFU with the Web of Trust.  This is
done by computing the trust level for each model and then taking the maximum
trust level where the trust levels are ordered as follows: unknown < undefined
< marginal < fully < ultimate < expired < never.

By setting --tofu-default-policy=unknown, this model can be used to implement
the web of trust with TOFU's conflict detection algorithm, but without its
assignment of positive trust values, which some security-conscious users don't
like.

Key validity is set directly by the user and not calculated via the Web of
Trust.	This model is solely based on the key and does not distinguish user
IDs.  Note that when changing to another trust model the trust values assigned
to a key are transformed into ownertrust values, which also indicate how you
trust the owner of the key to sign other keys.

Skip key validation and assume that used keys are always fully valid. You
generally won't use this unless you are using some external validation scheme.
This option also suppresses the "[uncertain]" tag printed with signature
checks when there is no evidence that the user ID is bound to the key.	Note
that this trust model still does not allow the use of expired, revoked, or
disabled keys.

Select the trust model depending on whatever the internal trust database says.
This is the default model if such a database already exists.  Note that a tofu
trust model is not considered here and must be enabled explicitly.

Identical to --trust-model always.

This option checks whether at least one valid signature on a file has been
made with the specified key.  The key is either specified as a fingerprint or
a file listing fingerprints.  The fingerprint must be given or listed in
compact format (no colons or spaces in between).  This option can be given
multiple times and each fingerprint is checked against the signing key as well
as the corresponding primary key.  If fpr_or_file specifies a file, empty
lines are ignored as well as all lines starting with a hash sign.  With this
option gpg is guaranteed to return with an exit code of 0 if and only if a
signature has been encountered, is valid, and the key matches one of the
fingerprints given by this option.

During data signature verification this options checks whether the used public
key algorithm matches the algorithms given by algolist.	 This option can be
given multiple times to concatenate more algorithms to the list; the delimiter
of the list are either commas or spaces.

The algorithm names given in the list may either be verbatim names like
"ed25519" with an optional leading single equal sign, or being prefixed with
">", ">=", "<=", or "<".  That prefix operator is applied to the number part
of the algorithm name; for example 2048 in "rsa2048" or 384 in
"brainpoolP384r1".  If the the leading non-digits in the name matches, the
prefix operator is used to compare the number part, a trailing suffix is
ignored in this case.  For example an algorithm list ">rsa3000,
>=brainpool384r1, =ed25519" allows RSA signatures with more that 3000 bits,
Brainpool curves 384 and 512, and the ed25519 algorithm.

With this option gpg (and also gpgv) is guaranteed to return with an exit code
of 0 if and only if all valid signatures on data are made using a matching
algorithm from the given list.


GnuPG can automatically locate and retrieve keys as needed using this option.
This happens when encrypting to an email address (in the "user@example.com"
form), and there are no "user@example.com" keys on the local keyring.  This
option takes any number of the mechanisms listed below, in the order they are
to be tried.  Instead of listing the mechanisms as comma delimited arguments,
the option may also be given several times to add more mechanism.  The option
--no-auto-key-locate or the mechanism "clear" resets the list.	The default is
"local,wkd".


Locate a key using DNS CERT, as specified in RFC-4398.

Locate a key using DANE, as specified in draft-ietf-dane-openpgpkey-05.txt.

Locate a key using the Web Key Directory protocol.

Locate the key using the configured LDAP servers.  This method is similar to
the keyserver mechanism but always uses only LDAP servers.

Locate the key using the Active Directory (Windows only).  This method also
allows one to search by fingerprint using the command --locate-external-key.
Note that this mechanism is actually a shortcut for the mechanism ‘ldap’ using
only "ldap:///" as the keyserver.

Locate a key using a keyserver.	 This method also allows one to search by
fingerprint using the command --locate-external-key if any of the configured
keyservers is an LDAP server.

In addition, a keyserver URL as used in the dirmngr configuration may be used
here to query that particular keyserver.  This method also allows one to
search by fingerprint using the command --locate-external-key if the URL
specifies an LDAP server.

Locate the key using the local keyrings.  This mechanism allows the user to
select the order a local key lookup is done.  Thus using ‘--auto-key-locate
local’ is identical to --no-auto-key-locate.

This flag disables the standard local key lookup, done before any of the
mechanisms defined by the --auto-key-locate are tried.	The position of this
mechanism in the list does not matter.	It is not required if local is also
used.

Clear all defined mechanisms.  This is useful to override mechanisms given in
a config file.	Note that a nodefault in mechanisms will also be cleared
unless it is given after the clear.



This is an offline mechanism to get a missing key for signature verification
and for later encryption to this key.  If this option is enabled and a
signature includes an embedded key, that key is used to verify the signature
and on verification success the key is imported. The default is
--no-auto-key-import.

On the sender (signing) site the option --include-key-block needs to be used
to put the public part of the signing key as “Key Block subpacket” into the
signature.

These options enable or disable the automatic retrieving of keys from a
keyserver when verifying signatures made by keys that are not on the local
keyring.  The default is --no-auto-key-retrieve.

The order of methods tried to lookup the key is:

1. If the option --auto-key-import is set and the signatures includes an
embedded key, that key is used to verify the signature and on verification
success that key is imported.

2. If a preferred keyserver is specified in the signature and the option
honor-keyserver-url is active (which is not the default), that keyserver is
tried.	Note that the creator of the signature uses the option
--sig-keyserver-url to specify the preferred keyserver for data signatures.

3. If the signature has the Signer's UID set (e.g. using --sender while
creating the signature) a Web Key Directory (WKD) lookup is done.  This is the
default configuration but can be disabled by removing WKD from the auto-key-
locate list or by using the option --disable-signer-uid.

4. If any keyserver is configured and the Issuer Fingerprint is part of the
signature (since GnuPG 2.1.16), the configured keyservers are tried.

Note that this option makes a "web bug" like behavior possible.	 Keyserver or
Web Key Directory operators can see which keys you request, so by sending you
a message signed by a brand new key (which you naturally will not have on your
local keyring), the operator can tell both your IP address and the time when
you verified the signature.

Select how to display key IDs.	"none" does not show the key ID at all but
shows the fingerprint in a separate line.  "short" is the traditional
8-character key ID.  "long" is the more accurate (but less convenient)
16-character key ID.  Add an "0x" to either to include an "0x" at the
beginning of the key ID, as in 0x99242560.  Note that this option is ignored
if the option --with-colons is used.

This option is deprecated - please use the --keyserver in ‘dirmngr.conf’
instead.

Use name as your keyserver. This is the server that --receive-keys,
--send-keys, and --search-keys will communicate with to receive keys from,
send keys to, and search for keys on. The format of the name is a URI:
`scheme:[//]keyservername[:port]' The scheme is the type of keyserver:
"hkp"/"hkps" for the HTTP (or compatible) keyservers or "ldap"/"ldaps" for the
LDAP keyservers.  Note that your particular installation of GnuPG may have
other keyserver types available as well. Keyserver schemes are case-
insensitive.

Most keyservers synchronize with each other, so there is generally no need to
send keys to more than one server. The keyserver hkp://keys.gnupg.net uses
round robin DNS to give a different keyserver each time you use it.

This is a space or comma delimited string that gives options for the
keyserver. Options can be prefixed with a `no-' to give the opposite meaning.
Valid import-options or export-options may be used here as well to apply to
importing (--recv-key) or exporting (--send-key) a key from a keyserver. While
not all options are available for all keyserver types, some common options
are:


When searching for a key with --search-keys, include keys that are marked on
the keyserver as revoked. Note that not all keyservers differentiate between
revoked and unrevoked keys, and for such keyservers this option is
meaningless. Note also that most keyservers do not have cryptographic
verification of key revocations, and so turning this option off may result in
skipping keys that are incorrectly marked as revoked.

When searching for a key with --search-keys, include keys that are marked on
the keyserver as disabled. Note that this option is not used with HKP
keyservers.

This is an obsolete alias for the option auto-key-retrieve.  Please do not use
it; it will be removed in future versions..

When using --refresh-keys, if the key in question has a preferred keyserver
URL, then use that preferred keyserver to refresh the key from. In addition,
if auto-key-retrieve is set, and the signature being verified has a preferred
keyserver URL, then use that preferred keyserver to fetch the key from. Note
that this option introduces a "web bug": The creator of the key can see when
the keys is refreshed.	Thus this option is not enabled by default.

When receiving a key, include subkeys as potential targets. Note that this
option is not used with HKP keyservers, as they do not support retrieving keys
by subkey id.

Do now allow to import secret keys.

These options have no more function since GnuPG 2.1.  Use the dirmngr
configuration options instead.


The default list of options is: "self-sigs-only, repair-keys, repair-pks-
subkey-bug, export-attributes". However, if the actual used source is an LDAP
server "no-self-sigs-only" is assumed unless "self-sigs-only" has been
explicitly configured.


Number of completely trusted users to introduce a new key signer (defaults to
1).

Number of marginally trusted users to introduce a new key signer (defaults to
3)

The default TOFU policy (defaults to auto).  For more information about the
meaning of this option, see: [trust-model-tofu].

Maximum depth of a certification chain (default is 5).

Do not cache the verification status of key signatures.	 Caching gives a much
better performance in key listings. However, if you suspect that your public
keyring is not safe against write modifications, you can use this option to
disable the caching. It probably does not make sense to disable it because all
kind of damage can be done if someone else has write access to your public
keyring.

If GnuPG feels that its information about the Web of Trust has to be updated,
it automatically runs the --check-trustdb command internally.  This may be a
time consuming process. --no-auto-check-trustdb disables this option.

This is dummy option. gpg always requires the agent.

This is dummy option. It has no effect when used with gpg.


Specify an agent program to be used for secret key operations.	The default
value is determined by running gpgconf with the option --list-dirs.  Note that
the pipe symbol (|) is used for a regression test suite hack and may thus not
be used in the file name.

Specify a dirmngr program to be used for keyserver access.  The default value
is ‘/usr/bin/dirmngr’.

Entirely disable the use of the Dirmngr.

Do not start the gpg-agent or the dirmngr if it has not yet been started and
its service is required.  This option is mostly useful on machines where the
connection to gpg-agent has been redirected to another machines.  If dirmngr
is required on the remote machine, it may be started manually using gpgconf
--launch dirmngr.

Lock the databases the first time a lock is requested and do not release the
lock until the process terminates.

Release the locks every time a lock is no longer needed. Use this to override
a previous --lock-once from a config file.

Disable locking entirely. This option should be used only in very special
environments, where it can be assured that only one process is accessing those
files. A bootable floppy with a stand-alone encryption system will probably
use this. Improper usage of this option may lead to data and key corruption.

This option will cause write errors on the status FD to immediately terminate
the process. That should in fact be the default but it never worked this way
and thus we need an option to enable this, so that the change won't break
applications which close their end of a status fd connected pipe too early.
Using this option along with --enable-progress-filter may be used to cleanly
cancel long running gpg operations.

With n greater than 0 the number of prompts asking to insert a smartcard gets
limited to N-1. Thus with a value of 1 gpg won't at all ask to insert a card
if none has been inserted at startup. This option is useful in the
configuration file in case an application does not know about the smartcard
support and waits ad infinitum for an inserted card.

GnuPG uses a file to store its internal random pool over invocations.  This
makes random generation faster; however sometimes write operations are not
desired. This option can be used to achieve that with the cost of slower
random generation.

Suppress the initial copyright message.

Suppress the warning about "using insecure memory".

Suppress the warning about unsafe file and home directory (--homedir)
permissions. Note that the permission checks that GnuPG performs are not
intended to be authoritative, but rather they simply warn about certain common
permission problems. Do not assume that the lack of a warning means that your
system is secure.

Note that the warning for unsafe --homedir permissions cannot be suppressed in
the gpg.conf file, as this would allow an attacker to place an unsafe gpg.conf
file in place, and use this file to suppress warnings about itself. The
--homedir permissions warning may only be suppressed on the command line.

Refuse to run if GnuPG cannot get secure memory. Defaults to no (i.e. run, but
give a warning).


When verifying a signature made from a subkey, ensure that the cross
certification "back signature" on the subkey is present and valid.  This
protects against a subtle attack against subkeys that can sign.	 Defaults to
--require-cross-certification for gpg.

Allow the user to do certain nonsensical or "silly" things like signing an
expired or revoked key, or certain potentially incompatible things like
generating unusual key types. This also disables certain warning messages
about potentially incompatible actions. As the name implies, this option is
for experts only. If you don't fully understand the implications of what it
allows you to do, leave this off. --no-expert disables this option.




 


Encrypt for user id name. If this option or --hidden-recipient is not
specified, GnuPG asks for the user-id unless --default-recipient is given.

Encrypt for user ID name, but hide the key ID of this user's key. This option
helps to hide the receiver of the message and is a limited countermeasure
against traffic analysis. If this option or --recipient is not specified,
GnuPG asks for the user ID unless --default-recipient is given.

This option is similar to --recipient except that it encrypts to a key stored
in the given file.  file must be the name of a file containing exactly one
key.  gpg assumes that the key in this file is fully valid.

This option is similar to --hidden-recipient except that it encrypts to a key
stored in the given file.  file must be the name of a file containing exactly
one key.  gpg assumes that the key in this file is fully valid.

Same as --recipient but this one is intended for use in the options file and
may be used with your own user-id as an "encrypt-to-self".  It is suggested to
use a fingerprint or at least a long keyID for name.  These keys are only used
when there are other recipients given either by use of --recipient or by the
asked user id.	No trust checking is performed for these user ids and even
disabled keys can be used.

Same as --hidden-recipient but this one is intended for use in the options
file and may be used with your own user-id as a hidden "encrypt-to-self".  It
is suggested to use a fingerprint or at least a long keyID for name.  These
keys are only used when there are other recipients given either by use of
--recipient or by the asked user id.  No trust checking is performed for these
user ids and even disabled keys can be used.

Disable the use of all --encrypt-to and --hidden-encrypt-to keys.

Sets up a named group, which is similar to aliases in email programs.  Any
time the group name is a recipient (-r or --recipient), it will be expanded to
the values specified. Multiple groups with the same name are automatically
merged into a single group.

The values are key IDs or fingerprints, but any key description is accepted.
Note that a value with spaces in it will be treated as two different values.
Note also there is only one level of expansion --- you cannot make an group
that points to another group. When used from the command line, it may be
necessary to quote the argument to this option to prevent the shell from
treating it as multiple arguments.

Remove a given entry from the --group list.

Remove all entries from the --group list.

Use name as the key to sign with. Note that this option overrides
--default-key.

This option has two purposes.  mbox must either be a complete user ID
containing a proper mail address or just a plain mail address.	The option can
be given multiple times.

When creating a signature this option tells gpg the signing key's user id used
to make the signature and embeds that user ID into the created signature
(using OpenPGP's ``Signer's User ID'' subpacket).  If the option is given
multiple times a suitable user ID is picked.  However, if the signing key was
specified directly by using a mail address (i.e. not by using a fingerprint or
key ID) this option is used and the mail address is embedded in the created
signature.

When verifying a signature mbox is used to restrict the information printed by
the TOFU code to matching user IDs.  If the option is used and the signature
contains a ``Signer's User ID'' subpacket that information is is also used to
restrict the printed information.  Note that GnuPG considers only the mail
address part of a User ID.

If this option or the said subpacket is available the TRUST lines as printed
by option status-fd correspond to the corresponding User ID; if no User ID is
known the TRUST lines are computed directly on the key and do not give any
information about the User ID.	In the latter case it his highly recommended
to scripts and other frontends to evaluate the VALIDSIG line, retrieve the key
and print all User IDs along with their validity (trust) information.


For hidden recipients GPG needs to know the keys to use for trial decryption.
The key set with --default-key is always tried first, but this is often not
sufficient.  This option allows setting more keys to be used for trial
decryption.  Although any valid user-id specification may be used for name it
makes sense to use at least the long keyid to avoid ambiguities.  Note that
gpg-agent might pop up a pinentry for a lot keys to do the trial decryption.
If you want to stop all further trial decryption you may use close-window
button instead of the cancel button.

Don't look at the key ID as stored in the message but try all secret keys in
turn to find the right decryption key. This option forces the behaviour as
used by anonymous recipients (created by using --throw-keyids or
--hidden-recipient) and might come handy in case where an encrypted message
contains a bogus key ID.

During decryption skip all anonymous recipients.  This option helps in the
case that people use the hidden recipients feature to hide their own encrypt-
to key from others.  If one has many secret keys this may lead to a major
annoyance because all keys are tried in turn to decrypt something which was
not really intended for it.  The drawback of this option is that it is
currently not possible to decrypt a message which includes real anonymous
recipients.




 


Create ASCII armored output.  The default is to create the binary OpenPGP
format.

Assume the input data is not in ASCII armored format.

Write output to file.  To write to stdout use - as the filename.

This option sets a limit on the number of bytes that will be generated when
processing a file. Since OpenPGP supports various levels of compression, it is
possible that the plaintext of a given message may be significantly larger
than the original OpenPGP message. While GnuPG works properly with such
messages, there is often a desire to set a maximum file size that will be
generated before processing is forced to stop by the OS limits. Defaults to 0,
which means "no limit".

The AEAD encryption mode encrypts the data in chunks so that a receiving side
can check for transmission errors or tampering at the end of each chunk and
does not need to delay this until all data has been received.  The used chunk
size is 2^n byte.  The lowest allowed value for n is 6 (64 byte) and the
largest is the default of 22 which creates chunks not larger than 4 MiB.

This option can be used to tell GPG the size of the input data in bytes.  n
must be a positive base-10 number.  This option is only useful if the input is
not taken from a file.	GPG may use this hint to optimize its buffer
allocation strategy.  It is also used by the --status-fd line ``PROGRESS'' to
provide a value for ``total'' if that is not available by other means.

gpg can track the origin of a key. Certain origins are implicitly known (e.g.
keyserver, web key directory) and set.	For a standard import the origin of
the keys imported can be set with this option.	To list the possible values
use "help" for string.	Some origins can store an optional url argument.  That
URL can appended to string after a comma.

This is a space or comma delimited string that gives options for importing
keys. Options can be prepended with a `no-' to give the opposite meaning. The
options are:


Allow importing key signatures marked as "local". This is not generally useful
unless a shared keyring scheme is being used.  Defaults to no.

Normally possible still existing ownertrust values of a key are cleared if a
key is imported.  This is in general desirable so that a formerly deleted key
does not automatically gain an ownertrust values merely due to import.	On the
other hand it is sometimes necessary to re-import a trusted set of keys again
but keeping already assigned ownertrust values.	 This can be achieved by using
this option.

During import, attempt to repair the damage caused by the PKS keyserver bug
(pre version 0.9.6) that mangles keys with multiple subkeys. Note that this
cannot completely repair the damaged key as some crucial data is removed by
the keyserver, but it does at least give you back one subkey. Defaults to no
for regular --import and to yes for keyserver --receive-keys.

Show a listing of the key as imported right before it is stored.  This can be
combined with the option --dry-run to only look at keys; the option show-only
is a shortcut for this combination.  The command --show-keys is another
shortcut for this.  Note that suffixes like '#' for "sec" and "sbb" lines may
or may not be printed.

Run the entire import code but instead of storing the key to the local keyring
write it to the output.	 The export option export-dane affect the output.
This option can for example be used to remove all invalid parts from a key
without the need to store it.

During import, allow key updates to existing keys, but do not allow any new
keys to be imported. Defaults to no.

After import, compact (remove all signatures except the self-signature) any
user IDs from the new key that are not usable.	Then, remove any signatures
from the new key that are not usable.  This includes signatures that were
issued by keys that are not present on the keyring. This option is the same as
running the --edit-key command "clean" after import. Defaults to no.

Accept only self-signatures while importing a key.  All other key signatures
are skipped at an early import stage.  This option can be used with
keyserver-options to mitigate attempts to flood a key with bogus signatures
from a keyserver.  The drawback is that all other valid key signatures, as
required by the Web of Trust are also not imported.  Note that when using this
option along with import-clean it suppresses the final clean step after
merging the imported key into the existing key.

Ignore all attribute user IDs (photo IDs) and their signatures while importing
a key.

After import, fix various problems with the keys.  For example, this reorders
signatures, and strips duplicate signatures.  Defaults to yes.

When used the keyboxd (option use-keyboxd in ‘common.conf’) does the import
within a single transaction.

Import the smallest key possible. This removes all signatures except the most
recent self-signature on each user ID. This option is the same as running the
--edit-key command "minimize" after import.  Defaults to no.

Import in key restore mode.  This imports all data which is usually skipped
during import; including all GnuPG specific data.  All other contradicting
options are overridden.

These options define an import/export filter which are applied to the
imported/exported keyblock right before it will be stored/written.  name
defines the type of filter to use, expr the expression to evaluate.  The
option can be used several times which then appends more expression to the
same name.


The available filter types are:


This filter will keep a user id packet and its dependent packets in the
keyblock if the expression evaluates to true.

This filter drops the selected subkeys.	 Currently only implemented for
--export-filter.

This filter drops the selected key signatures on user ids.  Self-signatures
are not considered.  Currently only implemented for --import-filter.

This filter is only implemented by --list-filter.  All property names may be
used.


For the syntax of the expression see the chapter "FILTER EXPRESSIONS".	The
property names for the expressions depend on the actual filter type and are
indicated in the following table.  Note that all property names may also be
used by --list-filter.

Property names may be prefix with a scope delimited by a slash.	 Valid scopes
are "pub" for public and secret primary keys, "sub" for public and secret
subkeys, "uid" for for user-ID packets, and "sig" for signature packets.
Invalid scopes are currently ignored.

The available properties are:


A string with the user id.  (keep-uid)

The addr-spec part of a user id with mailbox or the empty string.  (keep-uid)

A string with the key algorithm description.  For example "rsa3072" or
"ed25519".

A number with the public key algorithm of a key or subkey packet.  (drop-
subkey)

A number with the effective key size of a key or subkey packet.	 (drop-subkey)

The first is the timestamp a public key or subkey packet was created.  The
second is the same but given as an ISO string, e.g. "2016-08-17". (drop-
subkey)

The expiration time of a public key or subkey or 0 if it does not expire.  The
second is the same but given as an ISO date string or an empty string e.g.
"2038-01-19".

The hexified fingerprint of the current subkey or primary key.	(drop-subkey)

Boolean indicating whether the user id is the primary one.  (keep-uid)

Boolean indicating whether a user id (keep-uid), a key (drop-subkey), or a
signature (drop-sig) expired.

Boolean indicating whether a user id (keep-uid) or a key (drop-subkey) has
been revoked.

Boolean indicating whether a primary key is disabled.

Boolean indicating whether a key or subkey is a secret one.  (drop-subkey)

A string indicating the usage flags for the subkey, from the sequence
``ecsa?''.  For example, a subkey capable of just signing and authentication
would be an exact match for ``sa''. (drop-subkey)

The first is the timestamp a signature packet was created.  The second is the
same but given as an ISO date string, e.g. "2016-08-17". (drop-sig)

The expiration time of a signature packet or 0 if it does not expire.  The
second is the same but given as an ISO date string or an empty string e.g.
"2038-01-19".

A number with the public key algorithm of a signature packet. (drop-sig)

A number with the digest algorithm of a signature packet. (drop-sig)

A string with the key origin or a question mark.  For example the string
``wkd'' is used if a key originated from a Web Key Directory lookup.

The timestamp the key was last updated from a keyserver or the Web Key
Directory.

A string with the the URL associated wit the last key lookup.


This is a space or comma delimited string that gives options for exporting
keys.  Options can be prepended with a `no-' to give the opposite meaning.
The options are:


Allow exporting key signatures marked as "local". This is not generally useful
unless a shared keyring scheme is being used.  Defaults to no.

Include attribute user IDs (photo IDs) while exporting. Not including
attribute user IDs is useful to export keys that are going to be used by an
OpenPGP program that does not accept attribute user IDs.  Defaults to yes.

Include designated revoker information that was marked as "sensitive".
Defaults to no.


Export for use as a backup.  The exported data includes all data which is
needed to restore the key or keys later with GnuPG.  The format is basically
the OpenPGP format but enhanced with GnuPG specific data.  All other
contradicting options are overridden.

Compact (remove all signatures from) user IDs on the key being exported if the
user IDs are not usable. Also, do not export any signatures that are not
usable. This includes signatures that were issued by keys that are not present
on the keyring. This option is the same as running the --edit-key command
"clean" before export except that the local copy of the key is not modified.
Defaults to no.

Export the smallest key possible. This removes all signatures except the most
recent self-signature on each user ID. This option is the same as running the
--edit-key command "minimize" before export except that the local copy of the
key is not modified. Defaults to no.

Export only standalone revocation certificates of the key.  This option does
not export revocations of 3rd party certificate revocations.

Instead of outputting the key material output OpenPGP DANE records suitable to
put into DNS zone files.  An ORIGIN line is printed before each record to
allow diverting the records to the corresponding zone file.

Enable the use of a new secret key export format.  This format avoids the re-
encryption as required with the current OpenPGP format and also improves the
security of the secret key if it has been protected with a passphrase.	Note
that an unprotected key is exported as-is and thus not secure; the general
rule to convey secret keys in an OpenPGP encrypted file still applies with
this mode.  Versions of GnuPG before 2.4.0 are not able to import such a
secret file.


Print key listings delimited by colons. Note that the output will be encoded
in UTF-8 regardless of any --display-charset setting. This format is useful
when GnuPG is called from scripts and other programs as it is easily machine
parsed. The details of this format are documented in the file ‘doc/DETAILS’,
which is included in the GnuPG source distribution.

Do not merge primary user ID and primary key in --with-colon listing mode and
print all timestamps as seconds since 1970-01-01.  Since GnuPG 2.0.10, this
mode is always used and thus this option is obsolete; it does not harm to use
it though.

Revert to the pre-2.1 public key list mode.  This only affects the human
readable output and not the machine interface (i.e. --with-colons).  Note that
the legacy format does not convey suitable information for elliptic curves.

Same as the command --fingerprint but changes only the format of the output
and may be used together with another command.

If a fingerprint is printed for the primary key, this option forces printing
of the fingerprint for all subkeys.  This could also be achieved by using the
--with-fingerprint twice but by using this option along with keyid-format
"none" a compact fingerprint is printed.

In a colon mode listing emit "fp2" lines for version 4 OpenPGP keys having a
v5 style fingerprint of the key.

Print the ICAO spelling of the fingerprint in addition to the hex digits.

Include the keygrip in the key listings.  In --with-colons mode this is
implicitly enable for secret keys.

Include the locally held information on the origin and last update of a key in
a key listing.	In --with-colons mode this is always printed.  This data is
currently experimental and shall not be considered part of the stable API.

Print a Web Key Directory identifier along with each user ID in key listings.
This is an experimental feature and semantics may change.

Include info about the presence of a secret key in public key listings done
with --with-colons.



 


Force the use of AEAD encryption over MDC encryption.  AEAD is a modern and
faster way to do authenticated encryption than the old MDC method.
--force-aead is an alias and deprecated.  See also option --chunk-size.

These options are obsolete and have no effect since GnuPG 2.2.8.  The MDC is
always used unless the keys indicate that an AEAD algorithm can be used in
which case AEAD is used.  But note: If the creation of a legacy non-MDC
message is exceptionally required, the option --rfc2440 allows for this.

By default the user ID of the signing key is embedded in the data signature.
As of now this is only done if the signing key has been specified with
local-user using a mail address, or with sender.  This information can be
helpful for verifier to locate the key; see option --auto-key-retrieve.

This option is used to embed the actual signing key into a data signature.
The embedded key is stripped down to a single user id and includes only the
signing subkey used to create the signature as well as as valid encryption
subkeys.  All other info is removed from the key to keep it and thus the
signature small.  This option is the OpenPGP counterpart to the gpgsm option
--include-certs and allows the recipient of a signed message to reply
encrypted to the sender without using any online directories to lookup the
key.  The default is --no-include-key-block.  See also the option
--auto-key-import.

Set the list of personal cipher preferences to string.	Use gpg --version to
get a list of available algorithms, and use none to set no preference at all.
This allows the user to safely override the algorithm chosen by the recipient
key preferences, as GPG will only select an algorithm that is usable by all
recipients.  The most highly ranked cipher in this list is also used for the
--symmetric encryption command.

Set the list of personal digest preferences to string.	Use gpg --version to
get a list of available algorithms, and use none to set no preference at all.
This allows the user to safely override the algorithm chosen by the recipient
key preferences, as GPG will only select an algorithm that is usable by all
recipients.  The most highly ranked digest algorithm in this list is also used
when signing without encryption (e.g. --clear-sign or --sign).

Set the list of personal compression preferences to string.  Use gpg --version
to get a list of available algorithms, and use none to set no preference at
all.  This allows the user to safely override the algorithm chosen by the
recipient key preferences, as GPG will only select an algorithm that is usable
by all recipients.  The most highly ranked compression algorithm in this list
is also used when there are no recipient keys to consider (e.g. --symmetric).

Use name as the cipher algorithm for symmetric encryption with a passphrase if
--personal-cipher-preferences and --cipher-algo are not given.	The default is
AES-128.

Use name as the digest algorithm used to mangle the passphrases for symmetric
encryption.  The default is SHA-1.

Selects how passphrases for symmetric encryption are mangled. If n is 0 a
plain passphrase (which is in general not recommended) will be used, a 1 adds
a salt (which should not be used) to the passphrase and a 3 (the default)
iterates the whole process a number of times (see --s2k-count).

Specify how many times the passphrases mangling for symmetric encryption is
repeated.  This value may range between 1024 and 65011712 inclusive.  The
default is inquired from gpg-agent.  Note that not all values in the
1024-65011712 range are legal and if an illegal value is selected, GnuPG will
round up to the nearest legal value.  This option is only meaningful if
--s2k-mode is set to the default of 3.




 

These options control what GnuPG is compliant to. Only one of these options
may be active at a time. Note that the default setting of this is nearly
always the correct one. See the INTEROPERABILITY WITH OTHER OPENPGP PROGRAMS
section below before using one of these options.


Use standard GnuPG behavior. This is essentially OpenPGP behavior (see
--openpgp), but with extension from the proposed update to OpenPGP and with
some additional workarounds for common compatibility problems in different
versions of PGP.  This is the default option, so it is not generally needed,
but it may be useful to override a different compliance option in the gpg.conf
file.

Reset all packet, cipher and digest options to strict OpenPGP behavior.	 This
option implies --allow-old-cipher-algos.  Use this option to reset all
previous options like --s2k-*, --cipher-algo, --digest-algo and
--compress-algo to OpenPGP compliant values. All PGP workarounds are disabled.

Reset all packet, cipher and digest options to strict RFC-4880 behavior.  This
option implies --allow-old-cipher-algos.  Note that this is currently the same
thing as --openpgp.

Reset all packet, cipher and digest options to strict according to the
proposed updates of RFC-4880.

Reset all packet, cipher and digest options to strict RFC-2440 behavior.  Note
that by using this option encryption packets are created in a legacy mode
without MDC protection.	 This is dangerous and should thus only be used for
experiments.  This option implies --allow-old-cipher-algos.  See also option
--ignore-mdc-error.

This option is obsolete; it is handled as an alias for --pgp7

Set up all options to be as PGP 7 compliant as possible. This allowed the
ciphers IDEA, 3DES, CAST5,AES128, AES192, AES256, and TWOFISH., the hashes
MD5, SHA1 and RIPEMD160, and the compression algorithms none and ZIP.  This
option implies --escape-from-lines and disables --throw-keyids,

Set up all options to be as PGP 8 compliant as possible. PGP 8 is a lot closer
to the OpenPGP standard than previous versions of PGP, so all this does is
disable --throw-keyids and set --escape-from-lines.  All algorithms are
allowed except for the SHA224, SHA384, and SHA512 digests.

This option can be used instead of one of the options above.  Valid values for
string are the above option names (without the double dash) and possibly
others as shown when using "help" for string.

This option adjusts the compliance mode "de-vs" for stricter key size
requirements.  For example, a value of 3000 turns rsa2048 and dsa2048 keys
into non-VS-NfD compliant keys.

To check that data has been encrypted according to the rules of the current
compliance mode, a gpg user needs to evaluate the status lines.	 This is
allows frontends to handle compliance check in a more flexible way.  However,
for scripted use the required evaluation of the status-line requires quite
some effort; this option can be used instead to make sure that the gpg process
exits with a failure if the compliance rules are not fulfilled.	 Note that
this option has currently an effect only in "de-vs" mode.




 


Don't make any changes (this is not completely implemented).

Changes the behaviour of some commands. This is like --dry-run but different
in some cases. The semantic of this option may be extended in the future.
Currently it only skips the actual decryption pass and therefore enables a
fast listing of the encryption keys.

Prompt before overwriting any files.

Set compatibility flags to work around problems due to non-compliant keys or
data.  The flags are given as a comma separated list of flag names and are OR-
ed together.  The special flag "none" clears the list and allows one to start
over with an empty list.  To get a list of available flags the sole word
"help" can be used.

Select the debug level for investigating problems. level may be a numeric
value or by a keyword:

No debugging at all.  A value of less than 1 may be used instead of the
keyword.  Some basic debug messages.  A value between 1 and 2 may be used
instead of the keyword.	 More verbose debug messages.  A value between 3 and 5
may be used instead of the keyword.  Even more detailed messages.  A value
between 6 and 8 may be used instead of the keyword.  All of the debug messages
you can get. A value greater than 8 may be used instead of the keyword.	 The
creation of hash tracing files is only enabled if the keyword is used.

How these messages are mapped to the actual debugging flags is not specified
and may change with newer releases of this program. They are however carefully
selected to best aid in debugging.

Set debug flags.  All flags are or-ed and flags may be given in C syntax (e.g.
0x0042) or as a comma separated list of flag names.  To get a list of all
supported flags the single word "help" can be used. This option is only useful
for debugging and the behavior may change at any time without notice.

Set all useful debugging flags.

Set stdout into line buffered mode.  This option is only honored when given on
the command line.

Change the buffer size of the IOBUFs to n kilobyte.  Using 0 prints the
current size.  Note well: This is a maintainer only option and may thus be
changed or removed at any time without notice.

To facilitate software tests and experiments this option allows one to specify
a limit of up to 4 EiB (--chunk-size 62).

This option tries to override certain key expiration dates.  It is only useful
for certain regression tests.

This option is only useful for testing; it sets the system time back or forth
to epoch which is the number of seconds elapsed since the year 1970.
Alternatively epoch may be given as a full ISO time string (e.g.
"20070924T154812").

If you suffix epoch with an exclamation mark (!), the system time will appear
to be frozen at the specified time.

Change the format of printed creation and expiration times from just the date
to the date and time.  This is in general not useful and the same information
is anyway available in --with-colons mode.  These longer strings are also not
well aligned with other printed data.

Enable certain PROGRESS status outputs. This option allows frontends to
display a progress indicator while gpg is processing larger files.  There is a
slight performance overhead using it.

Write special status strings to the file descriptor n.	See the file DETAILS
in the documentation for a listing of them.

Same as --status-fd, except the status data is written to file file.

Write log output to file descriptor n and not to STDERR.

Same as --logger-fd, except the logger data is written to file file.  Use
‘socket://’ to log to s socket.

Prefix all log output with a timestamp even if no log file is used.

Write attribute subpackets to the file descriptor n. This is most useful for
use with --status-fd, since the status messages are needed to separate out the
various subpackets from the stream delivered to the file descriptor.

Same as --attribute-fd, except the attribute data is written to file file.

Use string as a comment string in cleartext signatures and ASCII armored
messages or keys (see --armor). The default behavior is not to use a comment
string. --comment may be repeated multiple times to get multiple comment
strings. --no-comments removes all comments.  It is a good idea to keep the
length of a single comment below 60 characters to avoid problems with mail
programs wrapping such lines.  Note that comment lines, like all other header
lines, are not protected by the signature.

Force inclusion of the version string in ASCII armored output.	If given once
only the name of the program and the major number is emitted, given twice the
minor is also emitted, given thrice the micro is added, and given four times
an operating system identification is also emitted.  --no-emit-version
(default) disables the version line.

Put the name value pair into the signature as notation data.  name must
consist only of printable characters or spaces, and must contain a '@'
character in the form keyname@domain.example.com (substituting the appropriate
keyname and domain name, of course).  This is to help prevent pollution of the
IETF reserved notation namespace. The --expert flag overrides the '@' check.
value may be any printable string; it will be encoded in UTF-8, so you should
check that your --display-charset is set correctly. If you prefix name with an
exclamation mark (!), the notation data will be flagged as critical
(rfc4880:5.2.3.16). --sig-notation sets a notation for data signatures.
--cert-notation sets a notation for key signatures (certifications).
--set-notation sets both.

There are special codes that may be used in notation names. "%k" will be
expanded into the key ID of the key being signed, "%K" into the long key ID of
the key being signed, "%f" into the fingerprint of the key being signed, "%s"
into the key ID of the key making the signature, "%S" into the long key ID of
the key making the signature, "%g" into the fingerprint of the key making the
signature (which might be a subkey), "%p" into the fingerprint of the primary
key of the key making the signature, "%c" into the signature count from the
OpenPGP smartcard, and "%%" results in a single "%". %k, %K, and %f are only
meaningful when making a key signature (certification), and %c is only
meaningful when using the OpenPGP smartcard.

Adds name to a list of known critical signature notations.  The effect of this
is that gpg will not mark a signature with a critical signature notation of
that name as bad.  Note that gpg already knows by default about a few critical
signatures notation names.

Use string as a Policy URL for signatures (rfc4880:5.2.3.20).  If you prefix
it with an exclamation mark (!), the policy URL packet will be flagged as
critical. --sig-policy-url sets a policy url for data signatures.
--cert-policy-url sets a policy url for key signatures (certifications).
--set-policy-url sets both.

The same %-expandos used for notation data are available here as well.

Use string as a preferred keyserver URL for data signatures. If you prefix it
with an exclamation mark (!), the keyserver URL packet will be flagged as
critical.

The same %-expandos used for notation data are available here as well.

Use string as the filename which is stored inside messages.  This overrides
the default, which is to use the actual filename of the file being encrypted.
Using the empty string for string effectively removes the filename from the
output.

Set the `for your eyes only' flag in the message. This causes GnuPG to refuse
to save the file unless the --output option is given, and PGP to use a "secure
viewer" with a claimed Tempest-resistant font to display the message. This
option overrides --set-filename.  --no-for-your-eyes-only disables this
option.

Try to create a file with a name as embedded in the data. This can be a
dangerous option as it enables overwriting files by giving the sender control
on how to store files.	Defaults to no.	 Note that the option --output
overrides this option.

A better approach than using this option is to decrypt to a temporary filename
and then rename that file to the embedded file name after checking that the
embedded filename is harmless.	When using the --status-fd option gpg tells
the filename as part of the PLAINTEXT status message.  If the filename is
important, the use of gpgtar is another option because gpgtar will never
overwrite a file but decrypt the files to a new directory.

Note also that unless a modern version 5 signature is used the embedded
filename is not part of the signed data.



Use name as cipher algorithm. Running the program with the command --version
yields a list of supported algorithms. If this is not used the cipher
algorithm is selected from the preferences stored with the key. In general,
you do not want to use this option as it allows you to violate the OpenPGP
standard.  The option --personal-cipher-preferences is the safe way to
accomplish the same thing.

Use name as the message digest algorithm. Running the program with the command
--version yields a list of supported algorithms. In general, you do not want
to use this option as it allows you to violate the OpenPGP standard.  The
option --personal-digest-preferences is the safe way to accomplish the same
thing.

Use compression algorithm name. "zlib" is RFC-1950 ZLIB compression. "zip" is
RFC-1951 ZIP compression which is used by PGP.	"bzip2" is a more modern
compression scheme that can compress some things better than zip or zlib, but
at the cost of more memory used during compression and decompression.
"uncompressed" or "none" disables compression. If this option is not used, the
default behavior is to examine the recipient key preferences to see which
algorithms the recipient supports. If all else fails, ZIP is used for maximum
compatibility.

ZLIB may give better compression results than ZIP, as the compression window
size is not limited to 8k. BZIP2 may give even better compression results than
that, but will use a significantly larger amount of memory while compressing
and decompressing. This may be significant in low memory situations. Note,
however, that PGP (all versions) only supports ZIP compression. Using any
algorithm other than ZIP or "none" will make the message unreadable with PGP.
In general, you do not want to use this option as it allows you to violate the
OpenPGP standard.  The option --personal-compress-preferences is the safe way
to accomplish the same thing.

Use name as the message digest algorithm used when signing a key. Running the
program with the command --version yields a list of supported algorithms.  Be
aware that if you choose an algorithm that GnuPG supports but other OpenPGP
implementations do not, then some users will not be able to use the key
signatures you make, or quite possibly your entire key.	 Note also that a
public key algorithm must be compatible with the specified digest algorithm;
thus selecting an arbitrary digest algorithm may result in error messages from
lower crypto layers or lead to security flaws.


Never allow the use of name as cipher algorithm.  The given name will not be
checked so that a later loaded algorithm will still get disabled.

Never allow the use of name as public key algorithm.  The given name will not
be checked so that a later loaded algorithm will still get disabled.

Do not put the recipient key IDs into encrypted messages. This helps to hide
the receivers of the message and is a limited countermeasure against traffic
analysis. ([Using a little social engineering anyone who is able to decrypt
the message can check whether one of the other recipients is the one he
suspects.])  On the receiving side, it may slow down the decryption process
because all available secret keys must be tried.  --no-throw-keyids disables
this option. This option is essentially the same as using --hidden-recipient
for all recipients.

This option changes the behavior of cleartext signatures so that they can be
used for patch files. You should not send such an armored file via email
because all spaces and line endings are hashed too. You can not use this
option for data which has 5 dashes at the beginning of a line, patch files
don't have this. A special armor header line tells GnuPG about this cleartext
signature option.

Because some mailers change lines starting with "From " to ">From " it is good
to handle such lines in a special way when creating cleartext signatures to
prevent the mail system from breaking the signature. Note that all other PGP
versions do it this way too.  Enabled by default. --no-escape-from-lines
disables this option.

Specify how many times gpg will request a new passphrase be repeated.  This is
useful for helping memorize a passphrase.  Defaults to 1 repetition; can be
set to 0 to disable any passphrase repetition.	Note that a n greater than 1
will pop up the pinentry window n+1 times even if a modern pinentry with two
entry fields is used.

Read the passphrase from file descriptor n. Only the first line will be read
from file descriptor n. If you use 0 for n, the passphrase will be read from
STDIN. This can only be used if only one passphrase is supplied.

Note that since Version 2.0 this passphrase is only used if the option --batch
has also been given. Since Version 2.1 the --pinentry-mode also needs to be
set to loopback.

Read the passphrase from file file. Only the first line will be read from file
file. This can only be used if only one passphrase is supplied. Obviously, a
passphrase stored in a file is of questionable security if other users can
read this file. Don't use this option if you can avoid it.

Note that since Version 2.0 this passphrase is only used if the option --batch
has also been given. Since Version 2.1 the --pinentry-mode also needs to be
set to loopback.

Use string as the passphrase. This can only be used if only one passphrase is
supplied. Obviously, this is of very questionable security on a multi-user
system. Don't use this option if you can avoid it.

Note that since Version 2.0 this passphrase is only used if the option --batch
has also been given. Since Version 2.1 the --pinentry-mode also needs to be
set to loopback.

Set the pinentry mode to mode.	Allowed values for mode are: Use the default
of the agent, which is ask.  Force the use of the Pinentry.  Emulate use of
Pinentry's cancel button.  Return a Pinentry error (``No Pinentry'').
Redirect Pinentry queries to the caller.  Note that in contrast to Pinentry
the user is not prompted again if he enters a bad password.

Disable the passphrase cache used for symmetrical en- and decryption.  This
cache is based on the message specific salt value (cf. --s2k-mode).

Tell gpg to assume that the operation ultimately originated at origin.
Depending on the origin certain restrictions are applied and the Pinentry may
include an extra note on the origin.  Supported values for origin are: local
which is the default, remote to indicate a remote origin or browser for an
operation requested by a web browser.

This is a replacement for the deprecated shared-memory IPC mode.  If this
option is enabled, user input on questions is not expected from the TTY but
from the given file descriptor. It should be used together with --status-fd.
See the file doc/DETAILS in the source distribution for details on how to use
it.

Same as --command-fd, except the commands are read out of file file

Allow the import and use of keys with user IDs which are not self-signed. This
is not recommended, as a non self-signed user ID is trivial to forge.
--no-allow-non-selfsigned-uid disables.

Disable all checks on the form of the user ID while generating a new one. This
option should only be used in very special environments as it does not ensure
the de-facto standard format of user IDs.

GnuPG normally checks that the timestamps associated with keys and signatures
have plausible values. However, sometimes a signature seems to be older than
the key due to clock problems. This option makes these checks just a warning.
See also --ignore-valid-from for timestamp issues on subkeys.

GnuPG normally does not select and use subkeys created in the future.  This
option allows the use of such keys and thus exhibits the pre-1.0.7 behaviour.
You should not use this option unless there is some clock problem. See also
--ignore-time-conflict for timestamp issues with signatures.

The ASCII armor used by OpenPGP is protected by a CRC checksum against
transmission errors. Occasionally the CRC gets mangled somewhere on the
transmission channel but the actual content (which is protected by the OpenPGP
protocol anyway) is still okay. This option allows GnuPG to ignore CRC errors.

This option changes a MDC integrity protection failure into a warning.	It is
required to decrypt old messages which did not use an MDC.  It may also be
useful if a message is partially garbled, but it is necessary to get as much
data as possible out of that garbled message.  Be aware that a missing or
failed MDC can be an indication of an attack.  Use with great caution; see
also option --rfc2440.

Old cipher algorithms like 3DES, IDEA, or CAST5 encrypt data using blocks of
64 bits; modern algorithms use blocks of 128 bit instead.  To avoid certain
attack on these old algorithms it is suggested not to encrypt more than 150
MiByte using the same key.  For this reason gpg does not allow the use of 64
bit block size algorithms for encryption unless this option is specified.

Signatures made with known-weak digest algorithms are normally rejected with
an ``invalid digest algorithm'' message.  This option allows the verification
of signatures made with such weak algorithms.  MD5 is the only digest
algorithm considered weak by default.  See also --weak-digest to reject other
digest algorithms.

Treat the specified digest algorithm as weak.  Signatures made over weak
digests algorithms are normally rejected. This option can be supplied multiple
times if multiple algorithms should be considered weak.	 See also
--allow-weak-digest-algos to disable rejection of weak digests.	 MD5 is always
considered weak, and does not need to be listed explicitly.

To avoid a minor risk of collision attacks on third-party key signatures made
using SHA-1, those key signatures are considered invalid.  This options allows
one to override this restriction.

This was a temporary introduced option and has no more effect.

Do not add the default keyring to the list of keyrings. Note that GnuPG needs
for almost all operations a keyring. Thus if you use this option and do not
provide alternate keyrings via --keyring, then GnuPG will still use the
default keyring.

Note that if the option use-keyboxd is enabled in ‘common.conf’, no keyrings
are used at all and keys are all maintained by the keyboxd process in its own
database.

Do not use any keyring at all.	This overrides the default and all options
which specify keyrings.

Skip the signature verification step. This may be used to make the decryption
faster if the signature verification is not needed.

Print key listings delimited by colons (like --with-colons) and print the
public key data.

Same as --list-keys, but the signatures are listed too.	 This command has the
same effect as using --list-keys with --with-sig-list.	Note that in contrast
to --check-signatures the key signatures are not verified.  This command can
be used to create a list of signing keys missing in the local keyring; for
example:

      gpg --list-sigs --with-colons USERID | \
	awk -F: '$1=="sig" && $2=="?" {if($13){print $13}else{print $5}}'

Changes the output of the list commands to work faster; this is achieved by
leaving some parts empty. Some applications don't need the user ID and the
trust information given in the listings. By using this options they can get a
faster listing. The exact behaviour of this option may change in future
versions.  If you are missing some information, don't use this option.

This is not for normal use. Use the source to see for what it might be useful.

This is not for normal use. Use the source to see for what it might be useful.

Display the session key used for one message. See --override-session-key for
the counterpart of this option.

We think that Key Escrow is a Bad Thing; however the user should have the
freedom to decide whether to go to prison or to reveal the content of one
specific message without compromising all messages ever encrypted for one
secret key.

You can also use this option if you receive an encrypted message which is
abusive or offensive, to prove to the administrators of the messaging system
that the ciphertext transmitted corresponds to an inappropriate plaintext so
they can take action against the offending user.

Don't use the public key but the session key string respective the session key
taken from the first line read from file descriptor fd.	 The format of this
string is the same as the one printed by --show-session-key. This option is
normally not used but comes handy in case someone forces you to reveal the
content of an encrypted message; using this option you can do this without
handing out the secret key.  Note that using --override-session-key may reveal
the session key to all local users via the global process table.  Often it is
useful to combine this option with --no-keyring.

When making a data signature, prompt for an expiration time. If this option is
not specified, the expiration time set via --default-sig-expire is used.
--no-ask-sig-expire disables this option.

The default expiration time to use for signature expiration. Valid values are
"0" for no expiration, a number followed by the letter d (for days), w (for
weeks), m (for months), or y (for years) (for example "2m" for two months, or
"5y" for five years), or an absolute date in the form YYYY-MM-DD. Defaults to
"0".

When making a key signature, prompt for an expiration time. If this option is
not specified, the expiration time set via --default-cert-expire is used.
--no-ask-cert-expire disables this option.

The default expiration time to use for key signature expiration.  Valid values
are "0" for no expiration, a number followed by the letter d (for days), w
(for weeks), m (for months), or y (for years) (for example "2m" for two
months, or "5y" for five years), or an absolute date in the form YYYY-MM-DD.
Defaults to "0".

This option can be used to change the default algorithms for key generation.
The string is similar to the arguments required for the command
--quick-add-key but slightly different.	 For example the current default of
"rsa2048/cert,sign+rsa2048/encr" (or "rsa3072") can be changed to the value of
what we currently call future default, which is
"ed25519/cert,sign+cv25519/encr".  You need to consult the source code to
learn the details.  Note that the advanced key generation commands can always
be used to specify a key algorithm directly.

When creating a new key the ownertrust of the new key is set to ultimate.
This option disables this and the user needs to manually assign an ownertrust
value.

This option modifies the behaviour of the commands --quick-sign-key,
--quick-lsign-key, and the "sign" sub-commands of --edit-key by forcing the
creation of a key signature, even if one already exists.

This option is intended for use in the global config file to disallow the use
of generate key commands.  Those commands will then fail with the error code
for Not Enabled.

This is an obsolete option and is not used anywhere.

These are obsolete options; they have no more effect since GnuPG 2.2.8.

This option enables a mode in which filenames of the form ‘-&n’, where n is a
non-negative decimal number, refer to the file descriptor n and not to a file
with that name.

Experimental use only.

Don't change the permissions of a secret keyring back to user read/write only.
Use this option only if you really know what you are doing.

Set the list of default preferences to string. This preference list is used
for new keys and becomes the default for "setpref" in the --edit-key menu.

Set the default keyserver URL to name. This keyserver will be used as the
keyserver URL when writing a new self-signature on a key, which includes key
generation and changing preferences.

Display various internal configuration parameters of GnuPG. This option is
intended for external programs that call GnuPG to perform tasks, and is thus
not generally useful. See the file ‘doc/DETAILS’ in the source distribution
for the details of which configuration items may be listed. --list-config is
only usable with --with-colons set.

Display various internal configuration parameters of Libgcrypt.

This command is similar to --list-config but in general only internally used
by the gpgconf tool.

This is more or less dummy action.  However it parses the configuration file
and returns with failure if the configuration file would prevent gpg from
startup.  Thus it may be used to run a syntax check on the configuration file.


Change the current user to uid which may either be a number or a name.	This
can be used from the root account to run gpg for another user.	If uid is not
the current UID a standard PATH is set and the envvar GNUPGHOME is unset.  To
override the latter the option --homedir can be used.  This option has only an
effect when used on the command line.  This option has currently no effect at
all on Windows.



 


Treat input files as text and store them in the OpenPGP canonical text form
with standard "CRLF" line endings. This also sets the necessary flags to
inform the recipient that the encrypted or signed data is text and may need
its line endings converted back to whatever the local system uses. This option
was useful when communicating between two platforms with different line ending
conventions (UNIX-like to Mac, Mac to Windows, etc). --no-textmode disables
this option, and is the default.  Note that this is a legacy option which
should not anymore be used by any modern software.

These options are obsolete and have no effect since GnuPG 2.1.

Causes --list-keys, --list-signatures, --list-public-keys, --list-secret-keys,
and verifying a signature to also display the photo ID attached to the key, if
any. See also --photo-viewer. These options are deprecated. Use --list-options
[no-]show-photos and/or --verify-options [no-]show-photos instead.

Display the keyring name at the head of key listings to show which keyring a
given key resides on. This option is deprecated: use --list-options
[no-]show-keyring instead.

Show signature notations in the --list-signatures or --check-signatures
listings as well as when verifying a signature with a notation in it. These
options are deprecated. Use --list-options [no-]show-notation and/or
--verify-options [no-]show-notation instead.

Show policy URLs in the --list-signatures or --check-signatures listings as
well as when verifying a signature with a policy URL in it. These options are
deprecated. Use --list-options [no-]show-policy-url and/or --verify-options
[no-]show-policy-url instead.

This option is deprecated and has no more effect since version 2.3.9.

This option is deprecated and has no more effect since version 2.3.9.







sign and encrypt for user Bob

make a cleartext signature

make a detached signature

make a detached signature with the key 0x12345678

show keys

show fingerprint

Verify the signature of the file but do not output the data unless requested.
The second form is used for detached signatures, where sigfile is the detached
signature (either ASCII armored or binary) and datafile are the signed data;
if this is not given, the name of the file holding the signed data is
constructed by cutting off the extension (".asc" or ".sig") of sigfile or by
asking the user for the filename.  If the option --output is also used the
signed data is written to the file specified by that option; use - to write
the signed data to stdout.




There are different ways to specify a user ID to GnuPG.	 Some of them are only
valid for gpg others are only good for gpgsm.  Here is the entire list of ways
to specify a key:


This format is deduced from the length of the string and its content or 0x
prefix. The key Id of an X.509 certificate are the low 64 bits of its SHA-1
fingerprint.  The use of key Ids is just a shortcut, for all automated
processing the fingerprint should be used.

When using gpg an exclamation mark (!) may be appended to force using the
specified primary or secondary key and not to try and calculate which primary
or secondary key to use.

The last four lines of the example give the key ID in their long form as
internally used by the OpenPGP protocol. You can see the long key ID using the
option --with-colons.

234567C4
0F34E556E
01347A56A
0xAB123456

234AABBCC34567C4
0F323456784E56EAB
01AB3FED1347A5612
0x234AABBCC34567C4



This format is deduced from the length of the string and its content or the 0x
prefix.	 Note, that only the 20 byte version fingerprint is available with
gpgsm (i.e. the SHA-1 hash of the certificate).

When using gpg an exclamation mark (!) may be appended to force using the
specified primary or secondary key and not to try and calculate which primary
or secondary key to use.

The best way to specify a key Id is by using the fingerprint.  This avoids any
ambiguities in case that there are duplicated key IDs.

1234343434343434C434343434343434
123434343434343C3434343434343734349A3434
0E12343434343434343434EAB3484343434343434
0xE12343434343434343434EAB3484343434343434


gpgsm also accepts colons between each pair of hexadecimal digits because this
is the de-facto standard on how to present X.509 fingerprints.	gpg also
allows the use of the space separated SHA-1 fingerprint as printed by the key
listing commands.

This is denoted by a leading equal sign. It does not make sense for X.509
certificates.

=Heinrich Heine <heinrichh@uni-duesseldorf.de>

This is indicated by enclosing the email address in the usual way with left
and right angles.

<heinrichh@uni-duesseldorf.de>


This is indicated by prefixing the search string with an @.  This uses a
substring search but considers only the mail address (i.e. inside the angle
brackets).

@heinrichh

This is indicated by a leading slash, directly followed by the RFC-2253
encoded DN of the subject.  Note that you can't use the string printed by
gpgsm --list-keys because that one has been reordered and modified for better
readability; use --with-colons to print the raw (but standard escaped)
RFC-2253 string.

/CN=Heinrich Heine,O=Poets,L=Paris,C=FR

This is indicated by a leading hash mark, directly followed by a slash and
then directly followed by the RFC-2253 encoded DN of the issuer.  This should
return the Root cert of the issuer.  See note above.

#/CN=Root Cert,O=Poets,L=Paris,C=FR


This is indicated by a hash mark, followed by the hexadecimal representation
of the serial number, then followed by a slash and the RFC-2253 encoded DN of
the issuer. See note above.

#4F03/CN=Root Cert,O=Poets,L=Paris,C=FR

This is indicated by an ampersand followed by the 40 hex digits of a keygrip.
gpgsm prints the keygrip when using the command --dump-cert.

&D75F22C3F86E355877348498CDC92BD21010A480


This is the default mode but applications may want to explicitly indicate this
by putting the asterisk in front.  Match is not case sensitive.

Heine
*Heine

These prefixes are reserved for looking up mails anchored at the end and for a
word search mode.  They are not yet implemented and using them is undefined.


Please note that we have reused the hash mark identifier which was used in old
GnuPG versions to indicate the so called local-id.  It is not anymore used and
there should be no conflict when used with X.509 stuff.

Using the RFC-2253 format of DNs has the drawback that it is not possible to
map them back to the original encoding, however we don't have to do this
because our key database stores this encoding as meta data.


The options --import-filter and --export-filter use expressions with this
syntax (square brackets indicate an optional part and curly braces a
repetition, white space between the elements are allowed):

  [lc] {[{flag}] PROPNAME op VALUE [lc]}

The name of a property (PROPNAME) may only consist of letters, digits and
underscores.  The description for the filter type describes which properties
are defined.  If an undefined property is used it evaluates to the empty
string.	 Unless otherwise noted, the VALUE must always be given and may not be
the empty string.  No quoting is defined for the value, thus the value may not
contain the strings && or ||, which are used as logical connection operators.
The flag -- can be used to remove this restriction.

Numerical values are computed as long int; standard C notation applies.	 lc is
the logical connection operator; either && for a conjunction or || for a
disjunction.  A conjunction is assumed at the begin of an expression.
Conjunctions have higher precedence than disjunctions.	If VALUE starts with
one of the characters used in any op a space after the op is required.


The supported operators (op) are:


Substring must match.

Substring must not match.

The full string must match.

The full string must not match.

The numerical value must match.

The numerical value must not match.

The numerical value of the field must be LE than the value.

The numerical value of the field must be LT than the value.

The numerical value of the field must be GT than the value.

The numerical value of the field must be GE than the value.

The string value of the field must be less or equal than the value.

The string value of the field must be less than the value.

The string value of the field must be greater than the value.

The string value of the field must be greater or equal than the value.

True if value is not empty (no value allowed).

True if value is empty (no value allowed).

Alias for "PROPNAME != 0" (no value allowed).

Alias for "PROPNAME == 0" (no value allowed).



Values for flag must be space separated.  The supported flags are:

VALUE spans to the end of the expression.  The string match in this part is
done case-sensitive.  Leading and trailing spaces are not removed from VALUE.
The optional single space after op is here required.

The filter options concatenate several specifications for a filter of the same
type.  For example the four options in this example:

 --import-filter keep-uid="uid =~ Alfa"
 --import-filter keep-uid="&& uid !~ Test"
 --import-filter keep-uid="|| uid =~ Alpha"
 --import-filter keep-uid="uid !~ Test"


which is equivalent to

 --import-filter \
  keep-uid="uid =~ Alfa" && uid !~ Test" || uid =~ Alpha" && "uid !~ Test"

imports only the user ids of a key containing the strings "Alfa" or "Alpha"
but not the string "test".


Trust values are used to indicate ownertrust and validity of keys and user
IDs.  They are displayed with letters or strings:


No ownertrust assigned / not yet calculated.


Trust calculation has failed; probably due to an expired key.

Not enough information for calculation.

Never trust this key.

Marginally trusted.

Fully trusted.

Ultimately trusted.

For validity only: the key or the user ID has been revoked.

The program encountered an unknown trust value.



There are a few configuration files to control certain aspects of gpg's
operation. Unless noted, they are expected in the current home directory (see:
[option --homedir]).


This is the standard configuration file read by gpg on startup.	 It may
contain any valid long option; the leading two dashes may not be entered and
the option may not be abbreviated.  This default name may be changed on the
command line (see: [gpg-option --options]).  You should backup this file.

This is an optional configuration file read by gpg on startup.	It may contain
options pertaining to all components of GnuPG.	Its current main use is for
the "use-keyboxd" option.  If the default home directory ‘~/.gnupg’ does not
exist, GnuPG creates this directory and a ‘common.conf’ file with "use-
keyboxd".


Note that on larger installations, it is useful to put predefined files into
the directory ‘/etc/skel/.gnupg’ so that newly created users start up with a
working configuration.	For existing users a small helper script is provided
to create these files (see: [addgnupghome]).

For internal purposes gpg creates and maintains a few other files; They all
live in the current home directory (see: [option --homedir]).  Only the gpg
program may modify these files.


This is the default home directory which is used if neither the environment
variable GNUPGHOME nor the option --homedir is given.

The public keyring using a legacy format.  You should backup this file.

If this file is not available, gpg defaults to the new keybox format and
creates a file ‘pubring.kbx’ unless that file already exists in which case
that file will also be used for OpenPGP keys.

Note that in the case that both files, ‘pubring.gpg’ and ‘pubring.kbx’ exists
but the latter has no OpenPGP keys, the legacy file ‘pubring.gpg’ will be
used.  Take care: GnuPG versions before 2.1 will always use the file
‘pubring.gpg’ because they do not know about the new keybox format. In the
case that you have to use GnuPG 1.4 to decrypt archived data you should keep
this file.

The lock file for the public keyring.

The public keyring using the new keybox format.	 This file is shared with
gpgsm.	You should backup this file.  See above for the relation between this
file and it predecessor.

To convert an existing ‘pubring.gpg’ file to the keybox format, you first
backup the ownertrust values, then rename ‘pubring.gpg’ to
‘publickeys.backup’, so it won’t be recognized by any GnuPG version, run
import, and finally restore the ownertrust values:

$ cd ~/.gnupg
$ gpg --export-ownertrust >otrust.lst
$ mv pubring.gpg publickeys.backup
$ gpg --import-options restore --import publickeys.backup
$ gpg --import-ownertrust otrust.lst

The lock file for ‘pubring.kbx’.

The legacy secret keyring as used by GnuPG versions before 2.1.	 It is not
used by GnuPG 2.1 and later.  You may want to keep it in case you have to use
GnuPG 1.4 to decrypt archived data.

The lock file for the legacy secret keyring.

File indicating that a migration to GnuPG 2.1 has been done.

The trust database.  There is no need to backup this file; it is better to
backup the ownertrust values (see: [option --export-ownertrust]).

The lock file for the trust database.

A file used to preserve the state of the internal random pool.

This is the directory where gpg stores pre-generated revocation certificates.
The file name corresponds to the OpenPGP fingerprint of the respective key.
It is suggested to backup those certificates and if the primary private key is
not stored on the disk to move them to an external storage device.  Anyone who
can access these files is able to revoke the corresponding key.	 You may want
to print them out.  You should backup all files in this directory and take
care to keep this backup closed away.


Operation is further controlled by a few environment variables:


Used to locate the default home directory.

If set directory used instead of "~/.gnupg".

This variable is obsolete; it was used by GnuPG versions before 2.1.

This value is passed via gpg-agent to pinentry.	 It is useful to convey extra
information to a custom pinentry.

Used to size some displays to the full size of the screen.

Apart from its use by GNU, it is used in the W32 version to override the
language selection done through the Registry.  If used and set to a valid and
available language name (langid), the file with the translation is loaded from
gpgdir/gnupg.nls/langid.mo.  Here gpgdir is the directory out of which the gpg
binary has been loaded.	 If it can't be loaded the Registry is tried and as
last resort the native Windows locale system is used.

This variable is only used by the regression test suite as a helper under
operating systems without proper support to figure out the name of a process'
text file.

This variable allows one to enable diagnostics for process management.	A
numeric decimal value is expected.  Bit 0 enables general diagnostics, bit 1
enables certain warnings on Windows.


When calling the gpg-agent component gpg sends a set of environment variables
to gpg-agent.  The names of these variables can be listed using the command:

  gpg-connect-agent 'getinfo std_env_names' /bye | awk '$1=="D" {print $2}'





gpg is often used as a backend engine by other software.  To help with this a
machine interface has been defined to have an unambiguous way to do this.  The
options --status-fd and --batch are almost always required for this.




 

Please consider using GPGME instead of calling gpg directly.  GPGME offers a
stable, backend-independent interface for many cryptographic operations.  It
supports OpenPGP and S/MIME, and also allows interaction with various GnuPG
components.

GPGME provides a C-API, and comes with bindings for C++, Qt, and Python.
Bindings for other languages are available.


 

Sometimes you want to contain effects of some operation, for example you want
to import a key to inspect it, but you do not want this key to be added to
your keyring.  In earlier versions of GnuPG, it was possible to specify
alternate keyring files for both public and secret keys.  In modern GnuPG
versions, however, we changed how secret keys are stored in order to better
protect secret key material, and it was not possible to preserve this
interface.

The preferred way to do this is to use ephemeral home directories.  This
technique works across all versions of GnuPG.

Create a temporary directory, create (or copy) a configuration that meets your
needs, make gpg use this directory either using the environment variable
GNUPGHOME, or the option --homedir.  GPGME supports this too on a per-context
basis, by modifying the engine info of contexts.  Now execute whatever
operation you like, import and export key material as necessary.  Once
finished, you can delete the directory.	 All GnuPG backend services that were
started will detect this and shut down.


 

Recent versions of GnuPG have an interface to manipulate keys without using
the interactive command --edit-key.  This interface was added mainly for the
benefit of GPGME (please consider using GPGME, see the manual subsection
``Programmatic use of GnuPG'').	 This interface is described in the subsection
``How to manage your keys''.


 

The command --generate-key may be used along with the option --batch for
unattended key generation.  This is the most flexible way of generating keys,
but it is also the most complex one.  Consider using the quick key
manipulation interface described in the previous subsection ``The quick key
manipulation interface''.

The parameters for the key are either read from stdin or given as a file on
the command line.  The format of the parameter file is as follows: Text only,
line length is limited to about 1000 characters.  UTF-8 encoding must be used
to specify non-ASCII characters.  Empty lines are ignored.  Leading and
trailing white space is ignored.  A hash sign as the first non white space
character indicates a comment line.  Control statements are indicated by a
leading percent sign, their arguments are separated by white space from the
keyword.  Parameters are specified by a keyword, followed by a colon;
arguments are separated by white space.	 The first parameter must be
‘Key-Type’ but control statements may be placed anywhere.  The order of the
parameters does not matter except for ‘Key-Type’.  The parameters are only
used for the generated keyblock (primary and subkeys); parameters from
previous sets are not used.  Some syntax checks may be performed.  Key
commences when either the end of the parameter file is reached, the next
‘Key-Type’ parameter is encountered, or the control statement ‘%commit’ is
encountered.


Control statements:


Print text as diagnostic.

Suppress actual key generation (useful for syntax checking).

Perform the key generation.  Note that an implicit commit is done at the next
parameter.

Do not write the key to the default or commandline given keyring but to
filename.  This must be given before the first commit to take place, duplicate
specification of the same filename is ignored, the last filename before a
commit is used.	 The filename is used until a new filename is used (at commit
points) and all keys are written to that file. If a new filename is given,
this file is created (and overwrites an existing one).

See the previous subsection ``Ephemeral home directories'' for a more robust
way to contain side-effects.

This option is a no-op for GnuPG 2.1 and later.

See the previous subsection ``Ephemeral home directories''.

This option is a no-op since GnuPG version 2.1.

Using this option allows the creation of keys without any passphrase
protection.  This option is mainly intended for regression tests.

If given the keys are created using a faster and a somewhat less secure random
number generator.  This option may be used for keys which are only used for a
short time and do not require full cryptographic strength.  It takes only
effect if used together with the control statement ‘%no-protection’.



General Parameters:


Starts a new parameter block by giving the type of the primary key. The
algorithm must be capable of signing.  This is a required parameter.  algo may
either be an OpenPGP algorithm number or a string with the algorithm name.
The special value ‘default’ may be used for algo to create the default key
type; in this case a ‘Key-Usage’ shall not be given and ‘default’ also be used
for ‘Subkey-Type’.

The requested length of the generated key in bits.  The default is returned by
running the command ‘gpg --gpgconf-list’.  For ECC keys this parameter is
ignored.

The requested elliptic curve of the generated key.  This is a required
parameter for ECC keys.	 It is ignored for non-ECC keys.

This is optional and used to generate a CSR or certificate for an already
existing key.  Key-Length will be ignored when given.

Space or comma delimited list of key usages.  Allowed values are ‘encrypt’,
‘sign’, and ‘auth’.  This is used to generate the key flags.  Please make sure
that the algorithm is capable of this usage.  Note that OpenPGP requires that
all primary keys are capable of certification, so no matter what usage is
given here, the ‘cert’ flag will be on.	 If no ‘Key-Usage’ is specified and
the ‘Key-Type’ is not ‘default’, all allowed usages for that particular
algorithm are used; if it is not given but ‘default’ is used the usage will be
‘sign’.

This generates a secondary key (subkey).  Currently only one subkey can be
handled.  See also ‘Key-Type’ above.

Length of the secondary key (subkey) in bits.  The default is returned by
running the command ‘gpg --gpgconf-list’.

Key curve for a subkey; similar to ‘Key-Curve’.

Key usage lists for a subkey; similar to ‘Key-Usage’.

If you want to specify a passphrase for the secret key, enter it here.
Default is to use the Pinentry dialog to ask for a passphrase.

The three parts of a user name.	 Remember to use UTF-8 encoding here.  If you
don't give any of them, no user ID is created.

Set the expiration date for the key (and the subkey).  It may either be
entered in ISO date format (e.g. "20000815T145012") or as number of days,
weeks, month or years after the creation date.	The special notation
"seconds=N" is also allowed to specify a number of seconds since creation.
Without a letter days are assumed.  Note that there is no check done on the
overflow of the type used by OpenPGP for timestamps.  Thus you better make
sure that the given value make sense.  Although OpenPGP works with time
intervals, GnuPG uses an absolute value internally and thus the last year we
can represent is 2105.

Set the creation date of the key as stored in the key information and which is
also part of the fingerprint calculation.  Either a date like "1986-04-26" or
a full timestamp like "19860426T042640" may be used.  The time is considered
to be UTC.  The special notation "seconds=N" may be used to directly specify a
the number of seconds since Epoch (Unix time).	If it is not given the current
time is used.

Set the cipher, hash, and compression preference values for this key.  This
expects the same type of string as the sub-command ‘setpref’ in the --edit-key
menu.

Add a designated revoker to the generated key.	Algo is the public key
algorithm of the designated revoker (i.e. RSA=1, DSA=17, etc.)	fpr is the
fingerprint of the designated revoker.	fpr may not contain spaces or colons.
The optional ‘sensitive’ flag marks the designated revoker as sensitive
information.  Only v4 and v5 keys may be designated revokers.

This is an optional parameter that specifies the preferred keyserver URL for
the key.

This is an optional parameter only used with the status lines KEY_CREATED and
KEY_NOT_CREATED.  string may be up to 100 characters and should not contain
spaces.	 It is useful for batch key generation to associate a key parameter
block with a status line.



Here is an example on how to create a key in an ephemeral home directory:
$ export GNUPGHOME="$(mktemp -d)"
$ cat >foo <<EOF
     %echo Generating a basic OpenPGP key
     Key-Type: DSA
     Key-Length: 1024
     Subkey-Type: ELG-E
     Subkey-Length: 1024
     Name-Real: Joe Tester
     Name-Comment: with stupid passphrase
     Name-Email: joe@foo.bar
     Expire-Date: 0
     Passphrase: abc
     # Do a commit here, so that we can later print "done" :-)
     %commit
     %echo done
EOF
$ gpg --batch --generate-key foo
 [...]
$ gpg --list-secret-keys
/tmp/tmp.0NQxB74PEf/pubring.kbx
-------------------------------
sec   dsa1024 2016-12-16 [SCA]
      768E895903FC1C44045C8CB95EEBDB71E9E849D0
uid	      [ultimate] Joe Tester (with stupid passphrase) <joe@foo.bar>
ssb   elg1024 2016-12-16 [E]


If you want to create a key with the default algorithms you would use these
parameters:
     %echo Generating a default key
     Key-Type: default
     Subkey-Type: default
     Name-Real: Joe Tester
     Name-Comment: with stupid passphrase
     Name-Email: joe@foo.bar
     Expire-Date: 0
     Passphrase: abc
     # Do a commit here, so that we can later print "done" :-)
     %commit
     %echo done





On older systems this program should be installed as setuid(root). This is
necessary to lock memory pages. Locking memory pages prevents the operating
system from writing memory pages (which may contain passphrases or other
sensitive material) to disk. If you get no warning message about insecure
memory your operating system supports locking without being root. The program
drops root privileges as soon as locked memory is allocated.

Note also that some systems (especially laptops) have the ability to ``suspend
to disk'' (also known as ``safe sleep'' or ``hibernate'').  This writes all
memory to disk before going into a low power or even powered off mode.	Unless
measures are taken in the operating system to protect the saved memory,
passphrases or other sensitive material may be recoverable from it later.

Before you report a bug you should first search the mailing list archives for
similar problems and second check whether such a bug has already been reported
to our bug tracker at https://bugs.gnupg.org.


gpgv(1), gpgsm(1), gpg-agent(1)

The full documentation for this tool is maintained as a Texinfo manual.	 If
GnuPG and the info program are properly installed at your site, the command

info gnupg

should give you access to the complete manual including a menu structure and
an index.


