- CMS encryption and signing tool


gpgsm is a tool similar to gpg to provide digital encryption and signing
services on X.509 certificates and the CMS protocol.  It is mainly used as a
backend for S/MIME mail processing.  gpgsm includes a full featured
certificate management and complies with all rules defined for the German
Sphinx project.





Commands are not distinguished from options except for the fact that only one
command is allowed.




 

Print the program version and licensing information.  Note that you cannot
abbreviate this command.

Print a usage message summarizing the most useful command-line options.	 Note
that you cannot abbreviate this command.

Print warranty information.  Note that you cannot abbreviate this command.

Print a list of all available options and commands.  Note that you cannot
abbreviate this command.



 

Perform an encryption.	The keys the data is encrypted to must be set using
the option --recipient.

Perform a decryption; the type of input is automatically determined.  It may
either be in binary form or PEM encoded; automatic determination of base-64
encoding is not done.

Create a digital signature.  The key used is either the fist one found in the
keybox or those set with the --local-user option.

Check a signature file for validity.  Depending on the arguments a detached
signature may also be checked.

Run in server mode and wait for commands on the stdin.

Behave as a Dirmngr client issuing the request command with the optional list
of args.  The output of the Dirmngr is printed stdout.	Please note that file
names given as arguments should have an absolute file name (i.e. commencing
with /) because they are passed verbatim to the Dirmngr and the working
directory of the Dirmngr might not be the same as the one of this client.
Currently it is not possible to pass data via stdin to the Dirmngr.  command
should not contain spaces.

This is command is required for certain maintaining tasks of the dirmngr where
a dirmngr must be able to call back to gpgsm.  See the Dirmngr manual for
details.

Certain maintenance operations are done by an external program call
gpg-protect-tool; this is usually not installed in a directory listed in the
PATH variable.	This command provides a simple wrapper to access this tool.
arguments are passed verbatim to this command; use ‘--help’ to get a list of
supported operations.





 

This command allows the creation of a certificate signing request or a self-
signed certificate.  It is commonly used along with the --output option to
save the created CSR or certificate into a file.  If used with the --batch a
parameter file is used to create the CSR or certificate and it is further
possible to create non-self-signed certificates.

List all available certificates stored in the local key database.  Note that
the displayed data might be reformatted for better human readability and
illegal characters are replaced by safe substitutes.

List all available certificates for which a corresponding a secret key is
available.

List certificates matching pattern using an external server.  This utilizes
the dirmngr service.

Same as --list-keys but also prints all keys making up the chain.


List all available certificates stored in the local key database using a
format useful mainly for debugging.

Same as --dump-keys but also prints all keys making up the chain.

List all available certificates for which a corresponding a secret key is
available using a format useful mainly for debugging.

List certificates matching pattern using an external server.  This utilizes
the dirmngr service.  It uses a format useful mainly for debugging.

This command takes certificate files as input and prints information about
them in the same format as --dump-cert does.  Each file may either contain a
single binary certificate or several PEM encoded certificates.	If no files
are given, the input is taken from stdin.

Please note that the listing format may be changed in future releases and that
the option --with-colons has currently no effect.


This is a debugging aid to reset certain flags in the key database which are
used to cache certain certificate statuses.  It is especially useful if a bad
CRL or a weird running OCSP responder did accidentally revoke certificate.
There is no security issue with this command because gpgsm always make sure
that the validity of a certificate is checked right before it is used.

Delete the keys matching pattern.  Note that there is no command to delete the
secret part of the key directly.  In case you need to do this, you should run
the command gpgsm --dump-secret-keys KEYID before you delete the key, copy the
string of hex-digits in the ``keygrip'' line and delete the file consisting of
these hex-digits and the suffix .key from the ‘private-keys-v1.d’ directory
below our GnuPG home directory (usually ‘~/.gnupg’).

Export all certificates stored in the Keybox or those specified by the
optional pattern. Those pattern consist of a list of user ids (see: [how-to-
specify-a-user-id]).  When used along with the --armor option a few
informational lines are prepended before each block.  There is one limitation:
As there is no commonly agreed upon way to pack more than one certificate into
an ASN.1 structure, the binary export (i.e. without using armor) works only
for the export of one certificate.  Thus it is required to specify a pattern
which yields exactly one certificate.  Ephemeral certificate are only exported
if all pattern are given as fingerprints or keygrips.

Export the private key and the certificate identified by key-id using the
PKCS#12 format.	 When used with the --armor option a few informational lines
are prepended to the output.  Note, that the PKCS#12 format is not very secure
and proper transport security should be used to convey the exported key.
(See: [option --p12-charset].)

Export the private key of the certificate identified by key-id with any
encryption stripped.  The ...-raw command exports in PKCS#1 format; the ...-p8
command exports in PKCS#8 format.  When used with the --armor option a few
informational lines are prepended to the output.  These commands are useful to
prepare a key for use on a TLS server.

Import the certificates from the PEM or binary encoded files as well as from
signed-only messages.  This command may also be used to import a secret key
from a PKCS#12 file.

Read information about the private keys from the smartcard and import the
certificates from there.  This command utilizes the gpg-agent and in turn the
scdaemon.

Change the passphrase of the private key belonging to the certificate
specified as user_id.  Note, that changing the passphrase/PIN of a smartcard
is not yet supported.





GPGSM features a bunch of options to control the exact behaviour and to change
the default configuration.




 

These options are used to change the configuration and are usually found in
the option file.



Reads configuration from file instead of from the default per-user
configuration file.  The default configuration file is named ‘gpgsm.conf’ and
expected in the ‘.gnupg’ directory directly below the home directory of the
user.

Set the name of the home directory to dir. If this option is not used, the
home directory defaults to ‘~/.gnupg’.	It is only recognized when given on
the command line.  It also overrides any home directory stated through the
environment variable ‘GNUPGHOME’ or (on Windows systems) by means of the
Registry entry HKCU\Software\GNU\GnuPG:HomeDir.

On Windows systems it is possible to install GnuPG as a portable application.
In this case only this command line option is considered, all other ways to
set a home directory are ignored.


Outputs additional information while running.  You can increase the verbosity
by giving several verbose commands to gpgsm, such as ‘-vv’.

This is a deprecated option.  It was used to add an LDAP server to use for
X.509 certificate and CRL lookup.  The alias --ldapserver existed from version
2.2.28 to 2.2.33 and 2.3.2 to 2.3.4 but is now entirely ignored.

LDAP servers must be given in the configuration for dirmngr.

Change the default name of the policy file to filename.	 The default name is
‘policies.txt’.

Specify an agent program to be used for secret key operations.	The default
value is determined by running the command gpgconf.  Note that the pipe symbol
(|) is used for a regression test suite hack and may thus not be used in the
file name.

Specify a dirmngr program to be used for CRL checks.  The default value is
‘/usr/bin/dirmngr’.

This option is obsolete and ignored.

Entirely disable the use of the Dirmngr.

Do not start the gpg-agent or the dirmngr if it has not yet been started and
its service is required.  This option is mostly useful on machines where the
connection to gpg-agent has been redirected to another machines.  If dirmngr
is required on the remote machine, it may be started manually using gpgconf
--launch dirmngr.

Do not print a warning when the so called "secure memory" cannot be used.

When running in server mode, append all logging output to file.	 Use
‘socket://’ to log to socket.

Prefix all log output with a timestamp even if no log file is used.




 


By default policy checks are enabled.  These options may be used to change it.

By default the CRL checks are enabled and the DirMngr is used to check for
revoked certificates.  The disable option is most useful with an off-line
network connection to suppress this check and also to avoid that new
certificates introduce a web bug by including a certificate specific CRL DP.
The disable option also disables an issuer certificate lookup via the
authorityInfoAccess property of the certificate; the
--enable-issuer-key-retrieve can be used to make use of that property anyway.

By default the CRL for trusted root certificates are checked like for any
other certificates.  This allows a CA to revoke its own certificates voluntary
without the need of putting all ever issued certificates into a CRL.  The
disable option may be used to switch this extra check off.  Due to the caching
done by the Dirmngr, there will not be any noticeable performance gain.	 Note,
that this also disables possible OCSP checks for trusted root certificates.  A
more specific way of disabling this check is by adding the ``relax'' keyword
to the root CA line of the ‘trustlist.txt’


Tell the dirmngr to reload the CRL for each request.  For better performance,
the dirmngr will actually optimize this by suppressing the loading for short
time intervals (e.g. 30 minutes). This option is useful to make sure that a
fresh CRL is available for certificates hold in the keybox.  The suggested way
of doing this is by using it along with the option --with-validation for a key
listing command.  This option should not be used in a configuration file.

Run a CRL check even for certificates which do not have any CRL distribution
point.	This requires that a suitable LDAP server has been configured in
Dirmngr and that the CRL can be found using the issuer.	 This option reverts
to what GnuPG did up to version 2.2.20.	 This option is in general not useful.

By default OCSP checks are disabled.  The enable option may be used to enable
OCSP checks via Dirmngr.  If CRL checks are also enabled, CRLs will be used as
a fallback if for some reason an OCSP request will not succeed.	 Note, that
you have to allow OCSP requests in Dirmngr's configuration too (option
--allow-ocsp) and configure Dirmngr properly.  If you do not do so you will
get the error code ‘Not supported’.

If a required certificate is missing while validating the chain of
certificates, try to load that certificate from an external location.  This
usually means that Dirmngr is employed to search for the certificate.  Note
that this option makes a "web bug" like behavior possible.  LDAP server
operators can see which keys you request, so by sending you a message signed
by a brand new key (which you naturally will not have on your local keybox),
the operator can tell both your IP address and the time when you verified the
signature.  Note that if CRL checking is not disabled issuer certificates are
retrieved in any case using the caIssuers authorityInfoAccess method.



This option changes the default validation model.  The only possible values
are "shell" (which is the default), "chain" which forces the use of the chain
model and "steed" for a new simplified model.  The chain model is also used if
an option in the ‘trustlist.txt’ or an attribute of the certificate requests
it.  However the standard model (shell) is in that case always tried first.

Add oid to the list of ignored certificate extensions.	The oid is expected to
be in dotted decimal form, like 2.5.29.3.  This option may be used more than
once.  Critical flagged certificate extensions matching one of the OIDs in the
list are treated as if they are actually handled and thus the certificate will
not be rejected due to an unknown critical extension.  Use this option with
care because extensions are usually flagged as critical for a reason.



 

Create PEM encoded output.  Default is binary output.

Create Base-64 encoded output; i.e. PEM without the header lines.

Assume the input data is PEM encoded.  Default is to autodetect the encoding
but this is may fail.

Assume the input data is plain base-64 encoded.

Assume the input data is binary encoded.

This option can be used to tell GPGSM the size of the input data in bytes.  n
must be a positive base-10 number.  It is used by the --status-fd line
``PROGRESS'' to provide a value for ``total'' if that is not available by
other means.


gpgsm uses the UTF-8 encoding when encoding passphrases for PKCS#12 files.
This option may be used to force the passphrase to be encoded in the specified
encoding name.	This is useful if the application used to import the key uses
a different encoding and thus will not be able to import a file generated by
gpgsm.	Commonly used values for name are Latin1 and CP850.  Note that gpgsm
itself automagically imports any file with a passphrase encoded to the most
commonly used encodings.


Use user_id as the standard key for signing.  This key is used if no other key
has been defined as a signing key.  Note, that the first --local-users option
also sets this key if it has not yet been set; however --default-key always
overrides this.


Set the user(s) to be used for signing.	 The default is the first secret key
found in the database.


Encrypt to the user id name.  There are several ways a user id may be given
(see: [how-to-specify-a-user-id]).


Write output to file.  The default is to write it to stdout.



Displays extra information with the --list-keys commands.  Especially a line
tagged grp is printed which tells you the keygrip of a key.  This string is
for example used as the file name of the secret key.  Implies --with-colons.


When doing a key listing, do a full validation check for each key and print
the result.  This is usually a slow operation because it requires a CRL lookup
and other operations.

When used along with --import, a validation of the certificate to import is
done and only imported if it succeeds the test.	 Note that this does not
affect an already available certificate in the DB.  This option is therefore
useful to simply verify a certificate.


For standard key listings, also print the MD5 fingerprint of the certificate.

Include the keygrip in standard key listings.  Note that the keygrip is always
listed in --with-colons mode.

Include info about the presence of a secret key in public key listings done
with --with-colons.

By default gpgsm prints distinguished names (DNs) like the Issuer or Subject
in a more readable format (e.g. using a well defined order of the parts).
However, this format can't be used as input strings.  This option reverts
printing to standard RFC-2253 format and thus avoids the need to use --dump-
cert or --with-colons to get the ``real'' name.



 

Using n of -2 includes all certificate except for the root cert, -1 includes
all certs, 0 does not include any certs, 1 includes only the signers cert and
all other positive values include up to n certificates starting with the
signer cert.  The default is -2.

Use the cipher algorithm with the ASN.1 object identifier oid for encryption.
For convenience the strings 3DES, AES and AES256 may be used instead of their
OIDs.  The default is AES (2.16.840.1.101.3.4.1.2).

Use name as the message digest algorithm.  Usually this algorithm is deduced
from the respective signing certificate.  This option forces the use of the
given algorithm and may lead to severe interoperability problems.





 



Change the current user to uid which may either be a number or a name.	This
can be used from the root account to run gpgsm for another user.  If uid is
not the current UID a standard PATH is set and the envvar GNUPGHOME is unset.
To override the latter the option --homedir can be used.  This option has only
an effect when used on the command line.  This option has currently no effect
at all on Windows.


Sometimes signatures are broken in that they announce a different digest
algorithm than actually used.  gpgsm uses a one-pass data processing model and
thus needs to rely on the announced digest algorithms to properly hash the
data.  As a workaround this option may be used to tell gpgsm to also hash the
data using the algorithm name; this slows processing down a little bit but
allows verification of such broken signatures.	If gpgsm prints an error like
``digest algo 8 has not been enabled'' you may want to try this option, with
‘SHA256’ for name.

Set the compliance mode.  Valid values are shown when using "help" for string.

This option adjusts the compliance mode "de-vs" for stricter key size
requirements.  For example, a value of 3000 turns rsa2048 and dsa2048 keys
into non-VS-NfD compliant keys.

To check that data has been encrypted according to the rules of the current
compliance mode, a gpgsm user needs to evaluate the status lines.  This is
allows frontends to handle compliance check in a more flexible way.  However,
for scripted use the required evaluation of the status-line requires quite
some effort; this option can be used instead to make sure that the gpgsm
process exits with a failure if the compliance rules are not fulfilled.	 Note
that this option has currently an effect only in "de-vs" mode.

This option checks whether at least one valid signature on a file has been
made with the specified key.  The key is either specified as a fingerprint or
a file listing fingerprints.  The fingerprint must be given or listed in
compact format (no colons or spaces in between).  As of now only SHA-1
fingerprints are allowed.  This option can be given multiple times and each
fingerprint is checked against the signing key as well as the corresponding
primary key.  If fpr_or_file specifies a file, empty lines are ignored as well
as all lines starting with a hash sign.	 With this option gpgsm is guaranteed
to return with an exit code of 0 if and only if a signature has been
encountered, is valid, and the key matches one of the fingerprints given by
this option.

Force encryption to the specified certificates without any validation of the
certificate chain.  The only requirement is that the certificate is capable of
encryption.  Note that this option is ineffective if --require-compliance is
used.

Add oid to the list of OIDs to be checked while reading certificates from
smartcards. The oid is expected to be in dotted decimal form, like 2.5.29.3.
This option may be used more than once.	 As of now certificates with an
extended key usage matching one of those OIDs are ignored during a
--learn-card operation and not imported.  This option can help to keep the
local key database clear of unneeded certificates stored on smartcards.

This option is only useful for testing; it sets the system time back or forth
to epoch which is the number of seconds elapsed since the year 1970.
Alternatively epoch may be given as a full ISO time string (e.g.
"20070924T154812").

Include ephemeral flagged keys in the output of key listings.  Note that they
are included anyway if the key specification for a listing is given as
fingerprint or keygrip.

Set compatibility flags to work around problems due to non-compliant
certificates or data.  The flags are given as a comma separated list of flag
names and are OR-ed together.  The special flag "none" clears the list and
allows one to start over with an empty list.  To get a list of available flags
the sole word "help" can be used.

Select the debug level for investigating problems. level may be a numeric
value or by a keyword:

No debugging at all.  A value of less than 1 may be used instead of the
keyword.  Some basic debug messages.  A value between 1 and 2 may be used
instead of the keyword.	 More verbose debug messages.  A value between 3 and 5
may be used instead of the keyword.  Even more detailed messages.  A value
between 6 and 8 may be used instead of the keyword.  All of the debug messages
you can get. A value greater than 8 may be used instead of the keyword.	 The
creation of hash tracing files is only enabled if the keyword is used.

How these messages are mapped to the actual debugging flags is not specified
and may change with newer releases of this program. They are however carefully
selected to best aid in debugging.

Set debug flags.  All flags are or-ed and flags may be given in C syntax (e.g.
0x0042) or as a comma separated list of flag names.  To get a list of all
supported flags the single word "help" can be used. This option is only useful
for debugging and the behavior may change at any time without notice.

Note, that all flags set using this option may get overridden by
--debug-level.

Same as --debug=0xffffffff

Usually gpgsm tries to avoid dumping core by well written code and by
disabling core dumps for security reasons.  However, bugs are pretty durable
beasts and to squash them it is sometimes useful to have a core dump.  This
option enables core dumps unless the Bad Thing happened before the option
parsing.

This is actually not a debugging option but only useful as such.  It lets
gpgsm bypass all certificate chain validation checks.

This is actually not a debugging option but only useful as such.  It lets
gpgsm ignore all notAfter dates, this is used by the regression tests.

Read the passphrase from file descriptor n. Only the first line will be read
from file descriptor n. If you use 0 for n, the passphrase will be read from
STDIN. This can only be used if only one passphrase is supplied.

Note that this passphrase is only used if the option --batch has also been
given.

Set the pinentry mode to mode.	Allowed values for mode are: Use the default
of the agent, which is ask.  Force the use of the Pinentry.  Emulate use of
Pinentry's cancel button.  Return a Pinentry error (``No Pinentry'').
Redirect Pinentry queries to the caller.  Note that in contrast to Pinentry
the user is not prompted again if he enters a bad password.

Tell gpgsm to assume that the operation ultimately originated at origin.
Depending on the origin certain restrictions are applied and the Pinentry may
include an extra note on the origin.  Supported values for origin are: local
which is the default, remote to indicate a remote origin or browser for an
operation requested by a web browser.

Suppress the import of common certificates on keybox creation.


All the long options may also be given in the configuration file after
stripping off the two leading dashes.



There are different ways to specify a user ID to GnuPG.	 Some of them are only
valid for gpg others are only good for gpgsm.  Here is the entire list of ways
to specify a key:


This format is deduced from the length of the string and its content or 0x
prefix. The key Id of an X.509 certificate are the low 64 bits of its SHA-1
fingerprint.  The use of key Ids is just a shortcut, for all automated
processing the fingerprint should be used.

When using gpg an exclamation mark (!) may be appended to force using the
specified primary or secondary key and not to try and calculate which primary
or secondary key to use.

The last four lines of the example give the key ID in their long form as
internally used by the OpenPGP protocol. You can see the long key ID using the
option --with-colons.

234567C4
0F34E556E
01347A56A
0xAB123456

234AABBCC34567C4
0F323456784E56EAB
01AB3FED1347A5612
0x234AABBCC34567C4



This format is deduced from the length of the string and its content or the 0x
prefix.	 Note, that only the 20 byte version fingerprint is available with
gpgsm (i.e. the SHA-1 hash of the certificate).

When using gpg an exclamation mark (!) may be appended to force using the
specified primary or secondary key and not to try and calculate which primary
or secondary key to use.

The best way to specify a key Id is by using the fingerprint.  This avoids any
ambiguities in case that there are duplicated key IDs.

1234343434343434C434343434343434
123434343434343C3434343434343734349A3434
0E12343434343434343434EAB3484343434343434
0xE12343434343434343434EAB3484343434343434


gpgsm also accepts colons between each pair of hexadecimal digits because this
is the de-facto standard on how to present X.509 fingerprints.	gpg also
allows the use of the space separated SHA-1 fingerprint as printed by the key
listing commands.

This is denoted by a leading equal sign. It does not make sense for X.509
certificates.

=Heinrich Heine <heinrichh@uni-duesseldorf.de>

This is indicated by enclosing the email address in the usual way with left
and right angles.

<heinrichh@uni-duesseldorf.de>


This is indicated by prefixing the search string with an @.  This uses a
substring search but considers only the mail address (i.e. inside the angle
brackets).

@heinrichh

This is indicated by a leading slash, directly followed by the RFC-2253
encoded DN of the subject.  Note that you can't use the string printed by
gpgsm --list-keys because that one has been reordered and modified for better
readability; use --with-colons to print the raw (but standard escaped)
RFC-2253 string.

/CN=Heinrich Heine,O=Poets,L=Paris,C=FR

This is indicated by a leading hash mark, directly followed by a slash and
then directly followed by the RFC-2253 encoded DN of the issuer.  This should
return the Root cert of the issuer.  See note above.

#/CN=Root Cert,O=Poets,L=Paris,C=FR


This is indicated by a hash mark, followed by the hexadecimal representation
of the serial number, then followed by a slash and the RFC-2253 encoded DN of
the issuer. See note above.

#4F03/CN=Root Cert,O=Poets,L=Paris,C=FR

This is indicated by an ampersand followed by the 40 hex digits of a keygrip.
gpgsm prints the keygrip when using the command --dump-cert.

&D75F22C3F86E355877348498CDC92BD21010A480


This is the default mode but applications may want to explicitly indicate this
by putting the asterisk in front.  Match is not case sensitive.

Heine
*Heine

These prefixes are reserved for looking up mails anchored at the end and for a
word search mode.  They are not yet implemented and using them is undefined.


Please note that we have reused the hash mark identifier which was used in old
GnuPG versions to indicate the so called local-id.  It is not anymore used and
there should be no conflict when used with X.509 stuff.

Using the RFC-2253 format of DNs has the drawback that it is not possible to
map them back to the original encoding, however we don't have to do this
because our key database stores this encoding as meta data.



$ gpgsm -er goo@bar.net <plaintext >ciphertext




There are a few configuration files to control certain aspects of gpgsm's
operation. Unless noted, they are expected in the current home directory (see:
[option --homedir]).


This is the standard configuration file read by gpgsm on startup.  It may
contain any valid long option; the leading two dashes may not be entered and
the option may not be abbreviated.  This default name may be changed on the
command line (see: [gpgsm-option --options]).  You should backup this file.

This is an optional configuration file read by gpgsm on startup.  It may
contain options pertaining to all components of GnuPG.	Its current main use
is for the "use-keyboxd" option.

This is a list of allowed CA policies.	This file should list the object
identifiers of the policies line by line.  Empty lines and lines starting with
a hash mark are ignored.  Policies missing in this file and not marked as
critical in the certificate will print only a warning; certificates with
policies marked as critical and not listed in this file will fail the
signature verification.	 You should backup this file.

For example, to allow only the policy 2.289.9.9, the file should look like
this:

# Allowed policies
2.289.9.9

This is the legacy method to mark root certificates as usable for qualified
certificates.  Qualified certificates are capable of creating legally binding
signatures in the same way as handwritten signatures.  The modern method to
mark such root certificates is to use the "qual" flag in the system
trustlist.txt; see the gpg-agent man page for details.

Comments int his file start with a hash mark and empty lines are ignored.
Lines do have a length limit but this is not a serious limitation as the
format of the entries is fixed and checked by gpgsm: A non-comment line starts
with optional whitespace, followed by exactly 40 hex characters, white space
and a lowercased 2 letter country code.	 Additional data delimited with by a
white space is current ignored but might late be used for other purposes.

Note that even if a certificate is listed in this file, this does not mean
that the certificate is trusted; in general the certificates listed in this
file need to be listed also in ‘trustlist.txt’. This is a global file an
installed in the sysconf directory (e.g.  ‘/etc/gnupg/qualified.txt’).

Every time gpgsm uses a certificate for signing or verification this file will
be consulted to check whether the certificate under question has ultimately
been issued by one of these CAs.  If this is the case the user will be
informed that the verified signature represents a legally binding
(``qualified'') signature.  When creating a signature using such a certificate
an extra prompt will be issued to let the user confirm that such a legally
binding signature shall really be created.

Because this software has not yet been approved for use with such
certificates, appropriate notices will be shown to indicate this fact.

This is plain text file with a few help entries used with pinentry as well as
a large list of help items for gpg and gpgsm.  The standard file has English
help texts; to install localized versions use filenames like ‘help.LL.txt’
with LL denoting the locale.  GnuPG comes with a set of predefined help files
in the data directory (e.g. ‘/usr/share/gnupg/gnupg/help.de.txt’) and allows
overriding of any help item by help files stored in the system configuration
directory (e.g. ‘/etc/gnupg/help.de.txt’).  For a reference of the help file's
syntax, please see the installed ‘help.txt’ file.


This file is a collection of common certificates used to populated a newly
created ‘pubring.kbx’.	An administrator may replace this file with a custom
one.  The format is a concatenation of PEM encoded X.509 certificates.	This
global file is installed in the data directory (e.g.
‘/usr/share/gnupg/com-certs.pem’).


Note that on larger installations, it is useful to put predefined files into
the directory ‘/etc/skel/.gnupg/’ so that newly created users start up with a
working configuration.	For existing users a small helper script is provided
to create these files (see: [addgnupghome]).

For internal purposes gpgsm creates and maintains a few other files; they all
live in the current home directory (see: [option --homedir]).  Only gpgsm may
modify these files.


This a database file storing the certificates as well as meta information.
For debugging purposes the tool kbxutil may be used to show the internal
structure of this file.	 You should backup this file.

This content of this file is used to maintain the internal state of the random
number generator across invocations.  The same file is used by other programs
of this software too.

If this file exists gpgsm will first try to connect to this socket for
accessing gpg-agent before starting a new gpg-agent instance.  Under Windows
this socket (which in reality be a plain file describing a regular TCP
listening port) is the standard way of connecting the gpg-agent.




gpg(1), gpg-agent(1)

The full documentation for this tool is maintained as a Texinfo manual.	 If
GnuPG and the info program are properly installed at your site, the command

info gnupg

should give you access to the complete manual including a menu structure and
an index.


