- Verify OpenPGP signatures


gpgv is an OpenPGP signature verification tool.

This program is actually a stripped-down version of gpg which is only able to
check signatures. It is somewhat smaller than the fully-blown gpg and uses a
different (and simpler) way to check that the public keys used to make the
signature are valid. There are no configuration files and only a few options
are implemented.

gpgv assumes that all keys in the keyring are trustworthy.  That does also
mean that it does not check for expired or revoked keys.

If no --keyring option is given, gpgv looks for a ``default'' keyring named
‘trustedkeys.kbx’ (preferred) or ‘trustedkeys.gpg’ in the home directory of
GnuPG, either the default home directory or the one set by the --homedir
option or the GNUPGHOME environment variable.  If any --keyring option is
used, gpgv will not look for the default keyring. The --keyring option may be
used multiple times and all specified keyrings will be used together.



The program returns 0 if everything is fine, 1 if at least one signature was
bad, and other error codes for fatal errors.

gpgv recognizes these options:


Gives more information during processing. If used twice, the input data is
listed in detail.

Try to be as quiet as possible.

Add file to the list of keyrings.  If file begins with a tilde and a slash,
these are replaced by the HOME directory. If the filename does not contain a
slash, it is assumed to be in the home-directory ("~/.gnupg" if --homedir is
not used).

Write output to file; to write to stdout use -.	 This option can be used to
get the signed text from a cleartext or binary signature; it also works for
detached signatures, but in that case this option is in general not useful.
Note that an existing file will be overwritten.


Write special status strings to the file descriptor n.	See the file DETAILS
in the documentation for a listing of them.

Write log output to file descriptor n and not to stderr.

Same as --logger-fd, except the logger data is written to file file.  Use
‘socket://’ to log to socket.

GnuPG normally checks that the timestamps associated with keys and signatures
have plausible values. However, sometimes a signature seems to be older than
the key due to clock problems. This option turns these checks into warnings.

Set the name of the home directory to dir. If this option is not used, the
home directory defaults to ‘~/.gnupg’.	It is only recognized when given on
the command line.  It also overrides any home directory stated through the
environment variable ‘GNUPGHOME’ or (on Windows systems) by means of the
Registry entry HKCU\Software\GNU\GnuPG:HomeDir.

On Windows systems it is possible to install GnuPG as a portable application.
In this case only this command line option is considered, all other ways to
set a home directory are ignored.

Treat the specified digest algorithm as weak.  Signatures made over weak
digests algorithms are normally rejected. This option can be supplied multiple
times if multiple algorithms should be considered weak.	 MD5 is always
considered weak, and does not need to be listed explicitly.

This option enables a mode in which filenames of the form ‘-&n’, where n is a
non-negative decimal number, refer to the file descriptor n and not to a file
with that name.

This option works in the same way as described for gpg.




Verify the signature of the file. The second form is used for detached
signatures, where sigfile is the detached signature (either ASCII-armored or
binary) and datafile contains the signed data; if datafile is "-" the signed
data is expected on stdin; if datafile is not given the name of the file
holding the signed data is constructed by cutting off the extension (".asc",
".sig" or ".sign") from sigfile.




The default keyring with the allowed keys.




Used to locate the default home directory.

If set directory used instead of "~/.gnupg".


gpg(1)

The full documentation for this tool is maintained as a Texinfo manual.	 If
GnuPG and the info program are properly installed at your site, the command

info gnupg

should give you access to the complete manual including a menu structure and
an index.





