grep - print lines that match patterns
...
... searches for patterns in each In the synopsis's first form, which is used
if no or options are present, the first operand is one or more patterns
separated by newline characters, and prints each line that matches a pattern.
Typically should be quoted when is used in a shell command.  A of stands for
standard input.	 If no is given, recursive searches examine the working
directory, and nonrecursive searches read standard input.  Output a usage
message and exit.  Output the version number of and exit.  Interpret as
extended regular expressions (EREs, see below).	 Interpret as fixed strings,
not regular expressions.  Interpret as basic regular expressions (BREs, see
below).	 This is the default.  Interpret as Perl-compatible regular
expressions (PCREs).  This option is experimental when combined with the
option, and may warn of unimplemented features.	 Use as the patterns.  If this
option is used multiple times or is combined with the option, search for all
patterns given.	 This option can be used to protect a pattern beginning with
“-”.  Obtain patterns from one per line.  If this option is used multiple
times or is combined with the option, search for all patterns given.  The
empty file contains zero patterns, and therefore matches nothing.  If is ,
read patterns from standard input.  Ignore case distinctions in patterns and
input data, so that characters that differ only in case match each other.  Do
not ignore case distinctions in patterns and input data.  This is the default.
This option is useful for passing to shell scripts that already use to cancel
its effects because the two options override each other.  Invert the sense of
matching, to select non-matching lines.	 Select only those lines containing
matches that form whole words.	The test is that the matching substring must
either be at the beginning of the line, or preceded by a non-word constituent
character.  Similarly, it must be either at the end of the line or followed by
a non-word constituent character.  Word-constituent characters are letters,
digits, and the underscore.  This option has no effect if is also specified.
Select only those matches that exactly match the whole line.  For a regular
expression pattern, this is like parenthesizing the pattern and then
surrounding it with and Suppress normal output; instead print a count of
matching lines for each input file.  With the option (see above), count non-
matching lines.	 Surround the matched (non-empty) strings, matching lines,
context lines, file names, line numbers, byte offsets, and separators (for
fields and groups of context lines) with escape sequences to display them in
color on the terminal.	The colors are defined by the environment variable is
Suppress normal output; instead print the name of each input file from which
no output would normally have been printed.  Suppress normal output; instead
print the name of each input file from which output would normally have been
printed.  Scanning each input file stops upon first match.  Stop reading a
file after matching lines.  If is zero, stops right away without reading
input.	A of -1 is treated as infinity and does not stop; this is the default.
If the input is standard input from a regular file, and matching lines are
output, ensures that the standard input is positioned to just after the last
matching line before exiting, regardless of the presence of trailing context
lines.	This enables a calling process to resume a search.  When stops after
matching lines, it outputs any trailing context lines.	When the or option is
also used, does not output a count greater than When the or option is also
used, stops after outputting non-matching lines.  Print only the matched (non-
empty) parts of a matching line, with each such part on a separate output
line.  Quiet; do not write anything to standard output.	 Exit immediately with
zero status if any match is found, even if an error was detected.  Also see
the or option.	Suppress error messages about nonexistent or unreadable files.
Print the 0-based byte offset within the input file before each line of
output.	 If is specified, print the offset of the matching part itself.	 Print
the file name for each match.  This is the default when there is more than one
file to search.	 This is a GNU extension.  Suppress the prefixing of file
names on output.  This is the default when there is only one file (or only
standard input) to search.  Display input actually coming from standard input
as input coming from file This can be useful for commands that transform a
file's contents before searching, e.g., See also the option.  Prefix each line
of output with the 1-based line number within its input file.  Make sure that
the first character of actual line content lies on a tab stop, so that the
alignment of tabs looks normal.	 This is useful with options that prefix their
output to the actual content: and In order to improve the probability that
lines from a single file will all start at the same column, this also causes
the line number and byte offset (if present) to be printed in a minimum size
field width.  Output a zero byte (the ASCII character) instead of the
character that normally follows a file name.  For example, outputs a zero byte
after each file name instead of the usual newline.  This option makes the
output unambiguous, even in the presence of file names containing unusual
characters like newlines.  This option can be used with commands like and to
process arbitrary file names, even those that contain newline characters.
Print lines of trailing context after matching lines.  Places a line
containing a group separator between contiguous groups of matches.  With the
or option, this has no effect and a warning is given.  Print lines of leading
context before matching lines.	Places a line containing a group separator
between contiguous groups of matches.  With the or option, this has no effect
and a warning is given.	 Print lines of output context.	 Places a line
containing a group separator between contiguous groups of matches.  With the
or option, this has no effect and a warning is given.  When or are in use,
print instead of between groups of lines.  When or are in use, do not print a
separator between groups of lines.  Process a binary file as if it were text;
this is equivalent to the option.  If a file's data or metadata indicate that
the file contains binary data, assume that the file is of type Non-text bytes
indicate binary data; these are either output bytes that are improperly
encoded for the current locale, or null input bytes when the option is not
given.	By default, is and suppresses output after null input binary data is
discovered, and suppresses output lines that contain improperly encoded data.
When some output is suppressed, follows any output with a message to standard
error saying that a binary file matches.  If is when discovers null input
binary data it assumes that the rest of the file does not match; this is
equivalent to the option.  If is processes a binary file as if it were text;
this is equivalent to the option.  When is may treat non-text bytes as line
terminators even without the option.  This means choosing versus can affect
whether a pattern matches a file.  For example, when is the pattern match
immediately followed by a null byte, even though this is not matched when is
Conversely, when is the pattern (period) might not match a null byte.  The
option might output binary garbage, which can have nasty side effects if the
output is a terminal and if the terminal driver interprets some of it as
commands.  On the other hand, when reading files whose text encodings are
unknown, it can be helpful to use or to set in the environment, in order to
find more matches even if the matches are unsafe for direct display.  If an
input file is a device, FIFO or socket, use to process it.  By default, is
which means that devices are read just as if they were ordinary files.	If is
devices are silently skipped.  If an input file is a directory, use to process
it.  By default, is i.e., read directories just as if they were ordinary
files.	If is silently skip directories.  If is read all files under each
directory, recursively, following symbolic links only if they are on the
command line.  This is equivalent to the option.  Skip any command-line file
with a name suffix that matches the pattern using wildcard matching; a name
suffix is either the whole name, or a trailing part that starts with a non-
slash character immediately after a slash in the name.	When searching
recursively, skip any subfile whose base name matches the base name is the
part after the last slash.  A pattern can use and as wildcards, and to quote a
wildcard or backslash character literally.  Skip files whose base name matches
any of the file-name globs read from (using wildcard matching as described
under Skip any command-line directory with a name suffix that matches the
pattern When searching recursively, skip any subdirectory whose base name
matches Ignore any redundant trailing slashes in Process a binary file as if
it did not contain matching data; this is equivalent to the option.  Search
only files whose base name matches (using wildcard matching as described under
If contradictory and options are given, the last matching one wins.  If no or
options match, a file is included unless the first such option is Read all
files under each directory, recursively, following symbolic links only if they
are on the command line.  Note that if no file operand is given, searches the
working directory.  This is equivalent to the option.  Read all files under
each directory, recursively.  Follow all symbolic links, unlike Use line
buffering on output.  This can cause a performance penalty.  Treat the file(s)
as binary.  By default, under MS-DOS and MS-Windows, guesses whether a file is
text or binary as described for the option.  If decides the file is a text
file, it strips the CR characters from the original file contents (to make
regular expressions with and work correctly).  Specifying overrules this
guesswork, causing all files to be read and passed to the matching mechanism
verbatim; if the file is a text file with CR/LF pairs at the end of each line,
this will cause some regular expressions to fail.  This option has no effect
on platforms other than MS-DOS and MS-Windows.	Treat input and output data as
sequences of lines, each terminated by a zero byte (the ASCII NUL character)
instead of a newline.  Like the or option, this option can be used with
commands like to process arbitrary file names.	A regular expression is a
pattern that describes a set of strings.  Regular expressions are constructed
analogously to arithmetic expressions, by using various operators to combine
smaller expressions.  understands three different versions of regular
expression syntax: “basic” (BRE), “extended” (ERE) and “perl” (PCRE).  In GNU
basic and extended regular expressions are merely different notations for the
same pattern-matching functionality.  In other implementations, basic regular
expressions are ordinarily less powerful than extended, though occasionally it
is the other way around.  The following description applies to extended
regular expressions; differences for basic regular expressions are summarized
afterwards.  Perl-compatible regular expressions have different functionality,
and are documented in and but work only if PCRE support is enabled.  The
fundamental building blocks are the regular expressions that match a single
character.  Most characters, including all letters and digits, are regular
expressions that match themselves.  Any meta-character with special meaning
may be quoted by preceding it with a backslash.	 The period matches any single
character.  It is unspecified whether it matches an encoding error.  A is a
list of characters enclosed by and It matches any single character in that
list.  If the first character of the list is the caret then it matches any
character in the list; it is unspecified whether it matches an encoding error.
For example, the regular expression matches any single digit.  Within a
bracket expression, a consists of two characters separated by a hyphen.	 In
the default C locale, it matches any single character that appears between the
two characters in ASCII order, inclusive.  For example, is equivalent to In
other locales the behavior is unspecified: might be equivalent to or or some
other bracket expression, or it might fail to match any character, or the set
of characters that it matches might be erratic, or it might be invalid.	 To
obtain the traditional interpretation of bracket expressions, you can use the
C locale by setting the environment variable to the value Finally, certain
named classes of characters are predefined within bracket expressions, as
follows.  Their names are self explanatory, and they are and For example,
means the character class of numbers and letters in the current locale.	 In
the C locale and ASCII character set encoding, this is the same as (Note that
the brackets in these class names are part of the symbolic names, and must be
included in addition to the brackets delimiting the bracket expression.)  Most
meta-characters lose their special meaning inside bracket expressions.	To
include a literal place it first in the list.  Similarly, to include a literal
place it anywhere but first.  Finally, to include a literal place it last.
The caret and the dollar sign are meta-characters that respectively match the
empty string at the beginning and end of a line.  The symbols and respectively
match the empty string at the beginning and end of a word.  The symbol matches
the empty string at the edge of a word, and matches the empty string provided
it's at the edge of a word.  The symbol is a synonym for and is a synonym for
A regular expression may be followed by one of several repetition operators:
The preceding item is optional and matched at most once.  The preceding item
will be matched zero or more times.  The preceding item will be matched one or
more times.  The preceding item is matched exactly times.  The preceding item
is matched or more times.  The preceding item is matched at most times.	 This
is a GNU extension.  The preceding item is matched at least times, but not
more than times.  Two regular expressions may be concatenated; the resulting
regular expression matches any string formed by concatenating two substrings
that respectively match the concatenated expressions.  Two regular expressions
may be joined by the infix operator the resulting regular expression matches
any string matching either alternate expression.  Repetition takes precedence
over concatenation, which in turn takes precedence over alternation.  A whole
expression may be enclosed in parentheses to override these precedence rules
and form a subexpression.  The back-reference , where is a single digit,
matches the substring previously matched by the parenthesized subexpression of
the regular expression.	 In basic regular expressions the meta-characters and
lose their special meaning; instead use the backslashed versions and Normally
the exit status is 0 if a line is selected, 1 if no lines were selected, and 2
if an error occurred.  However, if the or or is used and a line is selected,
the exit status is 0 even if an error occurred.	 The behavior of is affected
by the following environment variables.	 The locale for category is specified
by examining the three environment variables in that order.  The first of
these variables that is set specifies the locale.  For example, if is not set,
but is set to then the Brazilian Portuguese locale is used for the category.
The C locale is used if none of these environment variables are set, if the
locale catalog is not installed, or if was not compiled with national language
support (NLS).	The shell command lists locales that are currently available.
Controls how the option highlights output.  Its value is a colon-separated
list of capabilities that defaults to with the and boolean capabilities
omitted (i.e., false).	Supported capabilities are as follows.	SGR substring
for whole selected lines (i.e., matching lines when the command-line option is
omitted, or non-matching lines when is specified).  If however the boolean
capability and the command-line option are both specified, it applies to
context matching lines instead.	 The default is empty (i.e., the terminal's
default color pair).  SGR substring for whole context lines (i.e., non-
matching lines when the command-line option is omitted, or matching lines when
is specified).	If however the boolean capability and the command-line option
are both specified, it applies to selected non-matching lines instead.	The
default is empty (i.e., the terminal's default color pair).  Boolean value
that reverses (swaps) the meanings of the and capabilities when the command-
line option is specified.  The default is false (i.e., the capability is
omitted).  SGR substring for matching non-empty text in any matching line
(i.e., a selected line when the command-line option is omitted, or a context
line when is specified).  Setting this is equivalent to setting both and at
once to the same value.	 The default is a bold red text foreground over the
current line background.  SGR substring for matching non-empty text in a
selected line.	(This is only used when the command-line option is omitted.)
The effect of the (or if capability remains active when this kicks in.	The
default is a bold red text foreground over the current line background.	 SGR
substring for matching non-empty text in a context line.  (This is only used
when the command-line option is specified.)  The effect of the (or if
capability remains active when this kicks in.  The default is a bold red text
foreground over the current line background.  SGR substring for file names
prefixing any content line.  The default is a magenta text foreground over the
terminal's default background.	SGR substring for line numbers prefixing any
content line.  The default is a green text foreground over the terminal's
default background.  SGR substring for byte offsets prefixing any content
line.  The default is a green text foreground over the terminal's default
background.  SGR substring for separators that are inserted between selected
line fields between context line fields, and between groups of adjacent lines
when nonzero context is specified The default is a cyan text foreground over
the terminal's default background.  Boolean value that prevents clearing to
the end of line using Erase in Line (EL) to Right each time a colorized item
ends.  This is needed on terminals on which EL is not supported.  It is
otherwise useful on terminals for which the boolean terminfo capability does
not apply, when the chosen highlight colors do not affect the background, or
when EL is too slow or causes too much flicker.	 The default is false (i.e.,
the capability is omitted).  Note that boolean capabilities have no part.
They are omitted (i.e., false) by default and become true when specified.  See
the Select Graphic Rendition (SGR) section in the documentation of the text
terminal that is used for permitted values and their meaning as character
attributes.  These substring values are integers in decimal representation and
can be concatenated with semicolons.  takes care of assembling the result into
a complete SGR sequence Common values to concatenate include for bold, for
underline, for blink, for inverse, for default foreground color, to for
foreground colors, to for 16-color mode foreground colors, to for 88-color and
256-color modes foreground colors, for default background color, to for
background colors, to for 16-color mode background colors, and to for 88-color
and 256-color modes background colors.	LC_ALL, LC_COLLATE, LANG These
variables specify the locale for the category, which determines the collating
sequence used to interpret range expressions like LC_ALL, LC_CTYPE, LANG These
variables specify the locale for the category, which determines the type of
characters, e.g., which characters are whitespace.  This category also
determines the character encoding, that is, whether text is encoded in UTF-8,
ASCII, or some other encoding.	In the C or POSIX locale, all characters are
encoded as a single byte and every byte is a valid character.  LC_ALL,
LC_MESSAGES, LANG These variables specify the locale for the category, which
determines the language that uses for messages.	 The default C locale uses
American English messages.  If set, behaves as POSIX requires; otherwise,
behaves more like other GNU programs.  POSIX requires that options that follow
file names must be treated as file names; by default, such options are
permuted to the front of the operand list and are treated as options.  Also,
POSIX requires that unrecognized options be diagnosed as “illegal”, but since
they are not really against the law the default is to diagnose them as
“invalid”.  This man page is maintained only fitfully; the full documentation
is often more up-to-date.  Copyright 1998–2000, 2002, 2005–2025 Free Software
Foundation, Inc.  This is free software; see the source for copying
conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  Email bug reports to the bug-reporting address <bug-
grep@gnu.org>.	An email archive <https://lists.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/bug-
grep> and a bug tracker
<https://debbugs.gnu.org/cgi/pkgreport.cgi?package=grep> are available.	 Large
repetition counts in the construct may cause to use lots of memory.  In
addition, certain other obscure regular expressions require exponential time
and space, and may cause to run out of memory.	Back-references are very slow,
and may require exponential time.  The following example outputs the location
and contents of any line containing “f” and ending in “.c”, within all files
in the current directory whose names contain “g” and end in “.h”.  The option
outputs line numbers, the argument treats expansions of “*g*.h” starting with
“-” as file names not options, and the empty file /dev/null causes file names
to be output even if only one file name happens to be of the form “*g*.h”.
$ grep -n -- 'f.*\.c$' *g*.h /dev/null
argmatch.h:1:/* definitions and prototypes for argmatch.c
The only line that matches is line 1 of argmatch.h.  Note that the regular
expression syntax used in the pattern differs from the globbing syntax that
the shell uses to match file names.  A complete manual
<https://www.gnu.org/software/grep/manual/> is available.  If the and programs
are properly installed at your site, the command should give you access to the
complete manual.


