groff - front end to the GNU document formatting system is the primary front
end to the GNU document formatting system.  GNU is a typesetting system that
reads plain text input files that include formatting commands to produce
output in PostScript, PDF, HTML, DVI, or other formats, or for display to a
terminal.  Formatting commands can be low-level typesetting primitives, macros
from a supplied package, or user-defined macros.  All three approaches can be
combined.  If no operands are specified, or if is reads the standard input
stream.	 A reimplementation and extension of the typesetter from AT&T Unix, is
present on most POSIX systems owing to its long association with Unix manuals
(including man pages).	It and its predecessor are notable for their
production of several best-selling software engineering texts.	is capable of
producing typographically sophisticated documents while consuming minimal
system resources.  The command orchestrates the execution of preprocessors,
the transformation of input documents into a device-independent page
description language, and the production of output from that language.	and
display a usage message and exit.  Because is intended to subsume most users'
direct invocations of the formatter, the two programs share a set of options.
However, has some options that does not share, and others which interprets
differently.  At the same time, not all valid options can be given to The
following options either do not exist in GNU or are interpreted differently by
Set fallback input encoding used by to implies Run preprocessor.  Run
preprocessor.  Run preprocessor; implies Works as option (see below), but also
implies and It is passed to and the output driver, and is passed an option
with as its argument.  Run preprocessor; implies Run preprocessor.  Refer to
its man page for its behavior if neither of or options is also specified.  Set
input encoding used by to implies Send the output to a spooler program for
printing.  The directive in the device description file specifies the default
command to be used; see If no such directive is present for the output device,
this option is ignored.	 See options and Pass to the print spooler program.
If multiple are required, pass each with a separate option.  does not prefix
an option dash to before passing it to the spooler program.  Works as option
(see below), but is also passed to and Prohibit newlines between delimiters:
pass to Run preprocessor.  Pass to the postprocessor.  If multiple are
required, pass each with a separate option.  does not prefix an option dash to
before passing it to the postprocessor.	 Run preprocessor.  No mechanism is
provided for passing arguments to because most options have equivalent
language elements that can be specified within the document.  Run
preprocessor.  Operate in “safer” mode; see below for its opposite.  For
security reasons, safer mode is enabled by default.  Run preprocessor.	Direct
to format the input for the output device then calls an output driver to
convert output to a form appropriate for see subsection “Output devices”
below.	Operate in unsafe mode: pass the option to and Write version
information for and all programs run by it to the standard output stream; that
is, the given command line is processed in the usual way, passing to the
formatter and any pre- or postprocessors invoked.  Output the pipeline that
would run to the standard output stream, but do not execute it.	 If given more
than once, both writes and runs the pipeline.  Use instead of the usual
postprocessor to (pre)view a document on an X11 display.  Combining this
option with uses the font metrics of the PostScript device, whereas the and
options use the metrics of X11 fonts.  Disable postprocessing.	output will
appear on the standard output stream (unless suppressed with see for a
description of this format.  The following options are passed as-is to the
formatter program and described in more detail in its man page.	 Generate a
plain text approximation of the typeset output.	 Write a backtrace to the
standard error stream on each error or warning.	 Start with color output
disabled.  Enable AT&T compatibility mode; implies Define string.  Inhibit
error messages; implies Set default font family.  Search in directory for the
selected output device's directory of device and font description files.
Process standard input after the specified input files.	 Search for input
files.	Process before input files.  Search directory for macro files.	Number
the first page Output only pages in Define register.  Enable or inhibit
emission of warnings in category Suppress formatted device-independent output
of The architecture of the GNU system follows that of other device-independent
implementations, comprising preprocessors, macro packages, output drivers (or
“postprocessors”), a suite of utilities, and the formatter at its heart.  See
for a survey of how a system works.  The front end programs available in the
GNU system make it easier to use than traditional that required the
construction of pipelines or use of temporary files to carry a source document
from maintainable form to device-ready output.	The discussion below
summarizes the constituent parts of the GNU system.  It complements with
information.  Those who prefer to learn by experimenting or are desirous of
rapid feedback from the system may wish to start with a “Hello, world!”
document.  $ Hello, world!  We used a command only to eliminate the 65 blank
lines that would otherwise flood the terminal screen.  systems were developed
in the days of paper-based terminals with 66 lines to a page.)	Today's users
may prefer output to a UTF-8-capable terminal.	$ Producing PDF, HTML, or
TeX's DVI is also straightforward.  The hard part may be selecting a viewer
program for the output.	 $ $ $ $ $ $ Those with a programmer's bent may be
pleased to know that they can use in a read-evaluate-print loop (REPL).	 Doing
so can be handy to verify one's understanding of the formatter's behavior
and/or the syntax it accepts.  Turning on all warnings with can aid this goal.
$ 3
			   Hi, Leslie.
		    Your secret number is 4.  It is even.  In GNU the page
dimensions for the formatter and for output devices are handled separately.
In the formatter, requests are used to set the page length page offset (or
left margin, and line length The right margin is not explicitly configured;
the combination of page offset and line length provides the information
necessary to derive it.	 The macro package, automatically loaded by provides
an interface for configuring page dimensions by convenient names, like
“letter” or “A4”; see The formatter's default in this installation is It is up
to each macro package to respect the page dimensions configured in this way.
Some offer alternative mechanisms.  For each output device, the size of the
output medium can be set in its file.  Most output drivers also recognize a
command-line option to override the default dimensions and an option to use
landscape orientation.	See for a description of the directive, which takes an
argument of the same form as The output driver's man page, such as may also be
helpful.  uses the command-line option to pass options to output devices; for
example, use the following for PostScript output on A4 paper in landscape
orientation.  groff -Tps -dpaper=a4l -P-pa4 -P-l -ms foo.ms > foo.ps The
program is a wrapper around the program.  It allows one to specify
preprocessors via command-line options and automatically runs the appropriate
postprocessor for the selected output device.  Doing so, the manual
construction of pipelines or management of temporary files required of users
of traditional systems can be avoided.	Use the program to infer an
appropriate command line to format a document.	Input to a system is in plain
text interleaved with control lines and escape sequences.  The combination
constitutes a document in one of a family of languages we also call see for
background.  An overview of GNU language syntax and features, including lists
of all supported escape sequences, requests, and predefined registers, can be
found in GNU extensions to the AT&T language, a common subset of dialects
extant today, are detailed in A preprocessor interprets a domain-specific
language that produces language output.	 Frequently, such input is confined to
sections or regions of a input file (bracketed with macro calls specific to
each preprocessor), which it replaces.	Preprocessors therefore often
interpret a subset of syntax along with their own language.  GNU provides
reimplementations of most preprocessors familiar to users of AT&T these
routinely have extended features and/or require GNU to format their output.
tbl	    lays out tables;
eqn	    typesets mathematics;
pic	    draws diagrams;
refer	    processes bibliographic references;
soelim	    preprocesses “sourced” input files;
grn	    renders diagrams;
chem	    draws chemical structural formulæ using
gperl	    populates registers and strings using
glilypond   embeds sheet music; and
gpinyin	    eases Mandarin Chinese input using Hanyu Pinyin.
A preprocessor unique to GNU is which converts various input encodings to
something GNU can understand.  When used, it is run before any other
preprocessors.	Most preprocessors enclose content between a pair of
characteristic tokens.	Such a token must occur at the beginning of an input
line and use the dot control character.	 Spaces and tabs must not follow the
control character or precede the end of the input line.	 Deviating from these
rules defeats a token's recognition by the preprocessor.  Tokens are generally
preserved in preprocessor output and interpreted as macro calls subsequently
by The preprocessor is not yet available in
	      ┌─────────────┬─────────────────┬────────────────┐
	      │preprocessor │ starting token  │	 ending token  │
	      ┝━━━━━━━━━━━━━┿━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┿━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┥
	      │	   chem	    │	  .cstart     │	    .cend      │
	      │	   eqn	    │	    .EQ	      │	     .EN       │
	      │	   grap	    │	    .G1	      │	     .G2       │
	      │	   grn	    │	    .GS	      │	     .GE       │
	      │	  ideal	    │	    .IS	      │	     .IE       │
	      │		    │		      │	     .IF       │
	      │	   pic	    │	    .PS	      │	     .PE       │
	      │		    │		      │	     .PF       │
	      │		    │		      │	     .PY       │
	      │	  refer	    │	    .R1	      │	     .R2       │
	      │	   tbl	    │	    .TS	      │	     .TE       │
	      ├─────────────┼─────────────────┼────────────────┤
	      │ glilypond   │ .lilypond start │ .lilypond stop │
	      │	  gperl	    │	.Perl start   │	  .Perl stop   │
	      │	 gpinyin    │  .pinyin start  │	 .pinyin stop  │
	      └─────────────┴─────────────────┴────────────────┘
Macro files are input files designed to produce no output themselves but
instead ease the preparation of other documents.  When a macro file is
installed at a standard location and suitable for use by a general audience,
it is termed a Macro packages can be loaded prior to any input documents with
the The GNU system implements most well-known macro packages for AT&T in a
compatible way and extends them.  These have one- or two-letter names arising
from intense practices of naming economy in early Unix culture, a laconic
approach that led to many of the packages being identified in general usage
with the and option letter used to invoke them, sometimes to punning effect,
as with “man” (short for “manual”), and even with the option dash, as in the
case of the package, much better known as or even Macro packages serve a
variety of purposes.  Some are “full-service” packages, adopting
responsibility for page layout among other fundamental tasks, and defining
their own lexicon of macros for document composition; each such package stands
alone and a given document can use at most one.	 is used to compose man pages
in the format originating in Version 7 Unix (1979); see It can be specified on
the command line as is used to compose man pages in the format originating in
4.3BSD-Reno (1990); see It can be specified on the command line as is the
Berkeley general-purpose macro suite, developed as an alternative to AT&T's
see It can be specified on the command line as implements the format used by
the second-generation AT&T macro suite for general documents, a successor to
see It can be specified on the command line as (invariably called “mom”) is a
modern package written by Peter Schaffter specifically for GNU Consult the
HTML manual for extensive documentation.  She—for takes the female pronoun—can
be specified on the command line as is the original AT&T general-purpose
document format; see It can be specified on the command line as Others are
supplemental.  For instance, is a wrapper package specific to GNU that
recognizes whether a document uses or format and loads the corresponding macro
package.  It can be specified on the command line as A librarian program may
use this macro file to delegate loading of the correct macro package; it is
thus unnecessary for itself to scan the contents of a document to decide the
issue.	Many macro files augment the function of the full-service packages, or
of documents that do not employ such a package—the latter are sometimes
characterized as “raw”.	 These auxiliary packages are described, along with
details of macro file naming and placement, in The formatter, the program that
interprets language input, is It provides the features of the AT&T and
programs as well as many extensions.  The command-line option switches into
which tries to emulate AT&T as closely as is practical to enable the
formatting of documents written for the older system.  A shell script,
emulates the behavior of AT&T It attempts to correctly encode the output based
on the locale, relieving the user of the need to specify an output device with
the option and is therefore convenient for use with terminal output devices,
described in the next subsection.  GNU generates output in a device-
independent, but not device-agnostic, page description language detailed in
output is formatted for a particular typically specified by the option to the
formatter or a front end.  If neither this option nor the environment variable
is used, the default output device is An output device may be any of the
following.  for terminals using the ISO 646 1991:IRV character set and
encoding, also known as US-ASCII.  for terminals using the IBM code page 1047
character set and encoding.  for TeX DVI format.  for HTML and XHTML output,
respectively.  for terminals using the ISO Latin-1 (ISO 8859-1) character set
and encoding.  for Canon CaPSL printers (LBP-4 and LBP-8 series laser
printers).  for HP LaserJet4-compatible (or other PCL5-compatible) printers.
for PDF output.	 for PostScript output.	 for terminals using the ISO 10646
(“Unicode”) character set in UTF-8 encoding.  for previewing with using 75 dpi
resolution and a 10-point base type size.  for previewing with using 75 dpi
resolution and a 12-point base type size.  for previewing with using 100 dpi
resolution and a 10-point base type size.  for previewing with using 100 dpi
resolution and a 12-point base type size.  Any program that interprets the
output of GNU is a postprocessor.  The postprocessors provided by GNU are
which prepare a document for viewing or printing.  Postprocessors for other
purposes, such as page resequencing or statistical measurement of a document,
are conceivable.  An output driver supports one or more output devices, each
with its own device description file.  A device determines its postprocessor
with the directive in its device description file; see The option overrides
this selection, causing to serve as the output driver.	provides provides and
provides provides provides provides provides and provides and and additionally
can preview GNU includes a suite of utilities.	marks differences between a
pair of input files.  infers the command a document requires.  Several
utilities prepare descriptions of fonts, enabling the formatter to use them
when producing output for a given device.  adds information to AT&T font
description files to enable their use with GNU creates font description files
for PostScript Type 1 fonts.  translates a PostScript Type 1 font in PFB
(Printer Font Binary) format to PFA (Printer Font ASCII), which can then be
interpreted by creates font description files for the HP LaserJet 4 family of
printers.  creates font description files for the TeX DVI device.  creates
font description files for X Window System core fonts.	A trio of tools
transform material constructed using preprocessor languages into graphical
image files.  converts an equation into a cropped image.  converts a diagram
into a cropped image.  converts a diagram into a cropped image.	 Another set
of programs works with the bibliographic data files used by the preprocessor.
makes inverted indices for bibliographic databases, speeding lookup operations
on them.  searches the databases.  interactively searches the databases.
exits with a failure status if there was a problem parsing its arguments and a
successful status if either of the options or was specified.  Otherwise, runs
a pipeline to process its input; if all commands within the pipeline exit
successfully, does likewise.  If not, exit status encodes a summary of
problems encountered, setting bit 0 if a command exited with a failure status,
bit 1 if a command was terminated with a signal, and bit 2 if a command could
not be executed.  (Thus, if all three misfortunes befell one's pipeline, would
exit with status 2^0 + 2^1 + 2^2 = 1+2+4 = 7.)	To troubleshoot pipeline
problems, you may wish to re-run the command with the option and break the
reported pipeline down into separate stages, inspecting the exit status of and
diagnostic messages emitted by each command.  Normally, the path separator in
environment variables ending with is the colon; this may vary depending on the
operating system.  For example, Windows uses a semicolon instead.  This search
path, followed by is used to locate commands executed by If it is not set, the
installation directory of the GNU executables, is searched before GNU can be
configured at compile time to apply a prefix to the names of the programs it
provides that had a counterpart in AT&T so that name collisions are avoided at
run time.  The default prefix is empty.	 When used, this prefix is
conventionally the letter “g”.	For example, GNU would be installed as Besides
the prefix applies to the formatter the preprocessors and and the utilities
and The value of this variable is passed to the preprocessor's option to
select the character encoding of input files.  This variable's existence
implies the option If set but empty, calls without an option.  option
overrides Seek the selected output device's directory of device and font
description files in this list of directories.	See and Seek macro files in
this list of directories.  See and Create temporary files in this directory.
If not set, but the environment variable is set, temporary files are created
there instead.	On Windows systems, if neither of the foregoing are set, the
environment variables and (in that order) are checked also.  Otherwise,
temporary files are created in The and commands use temporary files.  Set the
default output device.	If empty or not set, is used.  The option overrides A
time stamp (expressed as seconds since the Unix epoch) to use as the output
creation time stamp in place of the current time.  The time is converted to
human-readable form using when the formatter starts up and stored in registers
usable by documents and macro packages.	 The time zone to use when converting
the current time (or value of to human-readable form; see systems are best
known for formatting man pages.	 Once a librarian program has located a man
page, it may execute a command much like the following.	 groff -t -man -Tutf8
/usr/share/man/man1/groff.1 The librarian will also pipe the output through a
pager, which might not interpret the SGR terminal escape sequences emits for
boldface, underlining, or italics; see section “Limitations” below.  To
process a input file using the preprocessors and and the macro package in the
way to which AT&T users were accustomed, one would type (or script) a
pipeline.  pic foo.me | tbl | troff -me -Tutf8 | grotty Using this pipe can be
shortened to an equivalent command.  groff -p -t -me -T utf8 foo.me An even
easier way to do this is to use to guess the preprocessor and macro options
and execute the result by using the command substitution feature of the shell.
$(grog -Tutf8 foo.me) Each command-line option to a postprocessor must be
specified with any required leading dashes because passes the arguments as-is
to the postprocessor; this permits arbitrary arguments to be transmitted.  For
example, to pass a title to the postprocessor, the shell commands groff -X -P
-title -P 'trial run' mydoc.t and groff -X -Z mydoc.t | gxditview -title
'trial run' - are equivalent.  When paging output for the and devices,
programs like and may require command-line options to correctly handle some
terminal escape sequences; see On EBCDIC hosts such as OS/390 Unix, the output
devices and aren't available.  Conversely, the output device is not available
on systems based on the ISO 646 or ISO 8859 character encoding standards.  GNU
installs files in varying locations depending on its compile-time
configuration.	On this installation, the following locations are used.
Application defaults directory for Directory containing executable commands.
List of common words for Directory for data files.  Default index for and
Documentation directory.  Example directory.  Font directory.  HTML
documentation directory.  Legacy font directory.  Local font directory.	 Local
macro package file) directory.	Macro package file) directory.	Font directory
for compatibility with old versions of see PDF documentation directory.	 Most
macro files supplied with GNU are stored in for the installation corresponding
to this document.  As a rule, multiple directories are searched for macro
files; see For a catalog of macro files GNU provides, see Device and font
description files supplied with GNU are stored in for the installation
corresponding to this document.	 As a rule, multiple directories are searched
for device and font description files; see For the formats of these files, see
Obtain links to releases for download, its source repository, discussion
mailing lists, a support ticket tracker, and further information from the page
of the GNU website A free implementation of the preprocessor, written by Ted
Faber can be found at the website supports only this (both the front-end
command and the overall system) was primarily written by James Clark
Contributors to this document include Clark, Trent A. Fisher, Werner Lemberg
Bernd Warken and G. Branden Robinson by Trent A. Fisher and Werner Lemberg, is
the primary manual.  You can browse it interactively with “info groff”.
Introduction, history, and further reading: Preprocessors: Macro packages and
package-specific utilities: Bibliographic database management tools: Language,
conventions, and GNU extensions: Intermediate output language: Formatter
program: Formatter wrappers: Postprocessors for output devices: Font support
utilities: Graphics conversion utilities: Difference-marking utility: “groff
guess” utility:


