grotty - output driver for typewriter-like (terminal) devices The GNU TTY
(“Teletype”) output driver translates the output of into a form suitable for
typewriter-like devices, including terminal emulators.	Normally, is invoked
by when the latter is given one of the or options on systems using ISO
character encoding standards, or with or on EBCDIC-based hosts.	 (In this
installation, is the default output device.)  Use option to pass any options
shown above to If no arguments are given, or if is “-”, reads the standard
input stream.  Output is written to the standard output stream.	 By default,
emits SGR escape sequences (from ISO 6429, popularly called “ANSI escapes”) to
change text attributes (bold, italic, underline, reverse video [“negative
image”] and colors).  Devices supporting the appropriate sequences can view
documents using eight different background and foreground colors.  Following
ISO 6429, the following colors are defined in black, white, red, green, blue,
yellow, magenta, and cyan.  Unrecognized colors are mapped to the default
color, which is dependent on the settings of the terminal.  OSC 8 hyperlinks
are produced for these devices.	 In keeping with long-standing practice and
the rarity of terminals (and emulators) that support oblique or italic fonts,
italicized text is represented with underlining by default—but see the option
below.	When paging output with the latter program must be instructed to pass
SGR and OSC sequences through to the device; its option is one way to achieve
this version 566 or later is required for OSC 8 support).  Consequently,
programs like that page documents with must call it with an appropriate
option.	 The option tells to use an output format compatible with paper
terminals, like the Teletype machines for which and were first developed but
which are no longer in wide use.  SGR escape sequences are not emitted; bold,
italic, and underlining character attributes are thus not manipulated.
Instead, overstrikes, representing a bold character with the sequence
BACKSPACE an italic character with the sequence BACKSPACE and bold italics
with BACKSPACE BACKSPACE This rendering is inherently ambiguous when the
character is itself the underscore.  The legacy output format can be rendered
on a video terminal (or emulator) by piping output through which may render
bold italics as reverse video.	Some implementations of are also able to
display these sequences; you may wish to experiment with that command's
option.	 renders legacy bold and italics without requiring options.  In
contrast to the terminal output drivers of some other implementations, never
outputs reverse line feeds.  There is therefore no need to filter its output
through understands one device control function produced by the escape
sequence in a document.	 ] ...]Embed a hyperlink using the OSC 8 terminal
escape sequence.  Specifying starts hyperlinked text, and omitting it ends the
hyperlink.  When is present, any number of additional key/value pairs can be
specified; their interpretation is the responsibility of the pager or
terminal.  Spaces or tabs cannot appear literally in or they must be
represented in an alternate form.  If the file for the character encoding
contains the directive, emits Unicode characters in UTF-8 encoding.
Otherwise, it emits characters in a single-byte encoding depending on the data
in the font description files.	See A font description file may contain a
directive where is a decimal integer.  If the 01 bit in is set, then the font
is treated as an italic font; if the 02 bit is set, then it is treated as a
bold font.  supports the standard four styles: (roman), and (bold-italic).
Because the output driver operates in mode, attempts to set or change the font
family or type size are ignored.  displays a usage message, while and show
version information; all exit afterward.  Suppress the use of overstriking for
bold characters in legacy output format.  Use only overstriking for bold-
italic characters in legacy output format.  Use legacy output format (see
subsection “Legacy output format” above).  SGR and OSC escape sequences are
not emitted.  Ignore all drawing escape sequences in the input.	 By default,
renders escape sequences that have at least one zero argument (and so are
either horizontal or vertical) using Unicode box drawing characters (for the
device) or the and characters (for all other devices).	handles escape
sequences that consist entirely of horizontal and vertical lines similarly.
Emit a form feed at the end of each page having no output on its last line.
Prepend directory to the search path for font and device description files;
describes the output device's character encoding, one of or Use literal
horizontal tab characters in the output.  Tabs are assumed to be set every 8
columns.  Render oblique-styled fonts and with the SGR attribute for italic
text rather than underlined text.  Many terminals don't support this
attribute; however, since patch #314 (2014-12-28), does.  Ignored if is also
specified.  Suppress overstriking (other than for bold and/or underlined
characters when the legacy output format is in use).  Render oblique-styled
fonts and with the SGR attribute for reverse video text rather than underlined
text.  Ignored if or is also specified.	 Suppress the use of underlining for
italic characters in legacy output format.  Use only underlining for bold-
italic characters in legacy output format.  A list of directories in which to
seek the selected output device's directory of device and font description
files.	See and If set, legacy output format is used just as if the option
were specified; see subsection “Legacy output format” above.
describes the output device.  describes the font known on device describes the
output device.	describes the font known on device describes the output
device.	 describes the font known on device describes the output device.
describes the font known on device defines macros for use with the and output
devices.  It is automatically loaded by when any of those output devices is
selected.  defines fallback characters for use with See is intended only for
simple documents.  There is no support for fractional horizontal or vertical
motions.  escape sequences producing anything other than horizontal and
vertical lines are not supported.  Characters above the first line (that is,
with a vertical drawing position of 0) cannot be rendered.  Color handling
differs from other output drivers.  The requests and escape sequences that set
the stroke and fill colors instead set the foreground and background character
cell colors, respectively.  The following document exercises several features
for which output device support varies: (1) bold style; (2) italic (underline)
style; (3) bold-italic style; (4) character composition by overstriking
(“coöperate”); (5) foreground color; (6) background color; and (7) horizontal
and vertical line-drawing.  You might see \f[B]bold\f[] and \f[I]italic\f[].
Some people see \f[BI]both\f[].	 If the output device does (not)
co\z\[ad]operate, you might see \m[red]red\m[].	 Black on cyan can have a
\M[cyan]\m[black]prominent\m[]\M[] \D'l 1i 0'\D'l 0 2i'\D'l 1i 0' look.	 .\"
If in nroff mode, end page now.	 .if n .pl \n[nl]u Given the foregoing input,
compare and contrast the output of the following.  $ $ $ “Control Functions
for Coded Character Sets” (ECMA-48) 5th edition, Ecma International,
June 1991.  A gratis version of ISO 6429, this document includes a normative
description of SGR escape sequences.  Available at “Hyperlinks in Terminal
Emulators” Egmont Koblinger.


