gst-inspect-1.0 - print info about a GStreamer plugin or element
gst-inspect-1.0 is a tool that prints out information on available GStreamer
plugins, information about a particular plugin, or information about a
particular element.  When executed with no PLUGIN or ELEMENT argument,
gst-inspect-1.0 will print a list of all plugins and elements together with a
summary.  When executed with a PLUGIN or ELEMENT argument, gst-inspect-1.0
will print information about that plug-in or element.  gst-inspect-1.0 accepts
the following arguments and options: Name of a plugin Name of an element Print
help synopsis and available FLAGS GStreamer info flags to set (list with
--help) Print all plugins and elements Print list of blacklisted files List
the plugin contents Allow inspecting only elements that match all the element
types filtered in this slash (´/´) separated list of element types. Those
types correspond to what is also called ´klass´ which is a string describing
the type of element, like ´Decoder´, ´Audio´, ´Encoder´ etc... This options
implies that only elements will be printed (not typefind functions or
tracers).  Check if the specified element or plugin exists When checking if an
element or plugin exists, also check that its version is at least the version
specified Print supported URI schemes, with the elements that implement them
Disable colors in output. You can also achieve the same by setting
´GST_INSPECT_NO_COLORS´ environment variable to any value.  Color output, even
when not connected to a tty.  Print a machine-parsable list of features the
specified plugin provides.  Useful in connection with external automatic
plugin installation mechanisms.	 GStreamer debugging flags to set (list with
--help) GStreamer info and debugging flags to set (list with --help) Add
directories separated with ':' to the plugin search path gst-inspect-1.0 reads
the following environment variables, in addition to the generic GStreamer
environment variables also described in Override the options passed to less
(by default "RXF").
See less(1) for more information.  The GStreamer team at
http://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/


