tbl - prepare tables for documents The GNU implementation of is part of the
document formatting system.  is a preprocessor that translates descriptions of
tables embedded in input files into the language understood by It copies the
contents of each to the standard output stream, except that lines between and
are interpreted as table descriptions.	While GNU input syntax is highly
compatible with AT&T the output GNU produces cannot be processed by AT&T GNU
(or a implementing any GNU extensions employed) must be used.  Normally, is
not executed directly by the user, but invoked by specifying the option to If
no operands are given on the command line, or if is reads the standard input
stream.	 expects to find table descriptions between input lines that begin
with (table start) and (table end).  Each such encloses one or more table
descriptions.  Within a table region, table descriptions beyond the first must
each be preceded by an input line beginning with This mechanism does not start
a new table region; all table descriptions are treated as part of their
enclosure, even if they are boxed or have column headings that repeat on
subsequent pages (see below).  (Experienced users should observe that is not a
language interpreter: the default control character must be used, and no
spaces or tabs are permitted between the control character and the macro name.
These input tokens remain as-is in the output, where they become ordinary
macro calls.  Macro packages often define and macros to handle issues of table
placement on the page.	produces code to define these macros as empty if their
definitions do not exist when the formatter encounters a table region.)	 Each
table region may begin with and must contain one or more each table definition
contains a followed by one or more input lines (rows) of These entries
comprise the The line immediately following the token may specify region
options, keywords that influence the interpretation or rendering of the region
as a whole or all table entries within it indiscriminately.  They must be
separated by commas, spaces, or tabs.  Those that require a parenthesized
argument permit spaces and tabs between the option's name and the opening
parenthesis.  Options accumulate and cannot be unset within a region once
declared; if an option that takes a parameter is repeated, the last occurrence
controls.  If present, the set of region options must be terminated with a
semicolon Any of the and region options makes a table “boxed” for the purpose
of later discussion.  Enclose each table entry in a box; implies Enclose the
entire table region in a box.  As a GNU extension, the alternative option name
is also recognized.  Center the table region with respect to the current
indentation and line length; the default is to left-align it.  As a GNU
extension, the alternative option name is also recognized.  Recognize
character as the decimal separator in columns using the (numeric) classifier
(see subsection “Column classifiers” below).  This is a GNU extension.
Recognize characters as start and end delimiters, respectively, for input, and
ignore input between them.  need not be distinct.  Enclose the entire table
region in a double box; implies As a GNU extension, the alternative option
name is also recognized.  Spread the table horizontally to fill the available
space (line length minus indentation) by increasing column separation.
Ordinarily, a table is made only as wide as necessary to accommodate the
widths of its entries and its column separations (whether specified or
default).  When applies to a table that exceeds the available horizontal
space, column separation is reduced as far as necessary (even to zero).
produces input that issues a diagnostic if such compression occurs.  The
column modifier (see below) overrides this option.  Draw lines or rules (e.g.,
from with a thickness of The default is the current type size when the region
begins.	 This option is ignored on terminal devices.  Don't use diversions to
manage page breaks.  Normally, employs them to avoid breaking a page within a
table row.  This usage can sometimes interact badly with macro packages' own
use of diversions—when footnotes, for example, are employed.  This is a GNU
extension.  Ignore leading and trailing spaces in table entries.  This is a
GNU extension.	Suppress diagnostic messages produced at document formatting
time when the line or page lengths are inadequate to contain a table row.
This is a GNU extension.  Use the character instead of a tab to separate
entries in a row of table data.	 The table format specification is mandatory:
it determines the number of columns in the table and directs how the entries
within it are to be typeset.  The format specification is a series of column
Each descriptor encodes a followed by zero or more Classifiers are letters
(recognized case-insensitively) or punctuation symbols; modifiers consist of
or begin with letters or numerals.  Spaces, tabs, newlines, and commas
separate descriptors.  Newlines and commas are special; they apply the
descriptors following them to a subsequent row of the table.  (This enables
column headings to be centered or emboldened while the table entries for the
data are not, for instance.)  We term the resulting group of column
descriptors a Within a row definition, separation between column descriptors
(by spaces or tabs) is often optional; only some modifiers, described below,
make separation necessary.  Each column descriptor begins with a mandatory a
character that selects from one of several arrangements.  Some determine the
positioning of table entries within a rectangular cell: centered, left-
aligned, numeric (aligned to a configurable decimal separator), and so on.
Others perform special operations like drawing lines or spanning entries from
adjacent cells in the table.  Except for any classifier can be followed by one
or more some of these accept an argument, which in GNU can be parenthesized.
Modifiers select fonts, set the type size, and perform other tasks described
below.	The format specification can occupy multiple input lines, but must
conclude with a dot followed by a newline.  Each row definition is applied in
turn to one row of the table.  The last row definition is applied to rows of
table data in excess of the row definitions.  For clarity in this document's
examples, we shall write classifiers in uppercase and modifiers in lowercase.
Thus, defines two rows of two columns.	The first row's entries are centered
and boldfaced; the second and any further rows' first and second columns are
left- and right-aligned, respectively.	The row definition with the most
column descriptors determines the number of columns in the table; any row
definition with fewer is implicitly extended on the right-hand side with
classifiers as many times as necessary to make the table rectangular.  The and
classifiers are the easiest to understand and use.  Center longest entry in
this column, left-align remaining entries in the column with respect to the
centered entry, then indent all entries by one en.  Such “alphabetic” entries
(hence the name of the classifier) can be used in the same column as entries,
as in The entries are often termed “sub-columns” due to their indentation.
Center entry within the column.	 Left-align entry within the column.
Numerically align entry in the column.	aligns columns of numbers vertically
at the units place.  If multiple decimal separators are adjacent to a digit,
it uses the rightmost one for vertical alignment.  If there is no decimal
separator, the rightmost digit is used for vertical alignment; otherwise,
centers the entry within the column.  The dummy character in an entry marks
the glyph preceding it (if any) as the units place; if multiple instances
occur in the data, the leftmost is used for alignment.	If entries share a
column with or centers the widest with respect to the widest or preserving the
alignment of with respect to each other.  The appearance of equations within
columns can be troublesome due to the foregoing textual scan for a decimal
separator.  Use the region option to make ignore the data within delimiters
for that purpose.  Right-align entry within the column.	 Span previous entry
on the left into this column.  Span entry in the same column from the previous
row into this row.  Replace table entry with a horizontal rule.	 An empty
table entry is expected to correspond to this classifier; if data are found
there, issues a diagnostic message.  Replace table entry with a double
horizontal rule.  An empty table entry is expected to correspond to this
classifier; if data are found there, issues a diagnostic message.  Place a
vertical rule (line) on the corresponding row of the table (if two of these
are adjacent, a double vertical rule).	This classifier does not contribute to
the column count and no table entries correspond to it.	 A to the left of the
first column descriptor or to the right of the last one produces a vertical
rule at the edge of the table; these are redundant (and ignored) in boxed
tables.	 To change the table format within a region, use the token at the
start of a line.  It is followed by a format specification and table data, but
region options.	 The quantity of columns in a new table format thus introduced
cannot increase relative to the previous table format; in that case, you must
end the table region and start another.	 If that will not serve because the
region uses box options or the columns align in an undesirable manner, you
must design the initial table format specification to include the maximum
quantity of columns required, and use the horizontal spanning classifier where
necessary to achieve the desired columnar alignment.  Attempting to
horizontally span in the first column or vertically span on the first row is
an error.  Non-rectangular span areas are also not supported.  Any number of
modifiers can follow a column classifier.  Arguments to modifiers, where
accepted, are case-sensitive.  If the same modifier is applied to a column
specifier more than once, or if conflicting modifiers are applied, only the
last occurrence has effect.  The is mutually exclusive with but is not
mutually exclusive if these are used in combination, both while either or
Typeset entry in boldface, abbreviating Align a vertically spanned table entry
to the bottom (“down”), instead of the center, of its range.  This is a GNU
extension.  Equalize the widths of columns with this modifier.	The column
with the largest width controls.  This modifier sets the default line length
used in a text block.  Select the typeface for the table entry.	 This modifier
must be followed by a font or style name (one or two characters not starting
with a digit), font mounting position (a single digit), or a name or mounting
position of any length in parentheses.	The last form is a GNU extension.
(The parameter corresponds to that accepted by the request.)  A one-character
argument not in parentheses must be separated by one or more spaces or tabs
from what follows.  Typeset entry in an oblique or italic face, abbreviating
Call a macro before typesetting a text block (see subsection “Text blocks”
below).	 This is a GNU extension.  This modifier must be followed by a macro
name of one or two characters or a name of any length in parentheses.  A one-
character macro name not in parentheses must be separated by one or more
spaces or tabs from what follows.  The named macro must be defined before the
table region containing this column modifier is encountered.  The macro should
contain only simple requests to change text formatting, like adjustment or
hyphenation.  The macro is called the column modifiers and take effect; it can
thus override other column modifiers.  Set the type size for the table entry.
This modifier must be followed by an with an optional leading sign.  If
unsigned, the type size is set to points.  Otherwise, the type size is
incremented or decremented per the sign by points.  The use of a signed multi-
digit number is a GNU extension.  (The parameter corresponds to that accepted
by the request.)  If a type size modifier is followed by a column separation
modifier (see below), they must be separated by at least one space or tab.
Align a vertically spanned table entry to the top, instead of the center, of
its range.  Move the column up one half-line, “staggering” the rows.  This is
a GNU extension.  Set the vertical spacing to be used in a text block.	This
modifier must be followed by an with an optional leading sign.	If unsigned,
the vertical spacing is set to Otherwise, the vertical spacing is incremented
or decremented per the sign by The use of a signed multi-digit number is a GNU
extension.  (This parameter corresponds to that accepted by the request.)  If
a vertical spacing modifier is followed by a column separation modifier (see
below), they must be separated by at least one space or tab.  Set the column's
minimum width.	This modifier must be followed by a number, which is either a
unitless integer, or a horizontal measurement in parentheses.  Parentheses are
required if the width is to be followed immediately by an explicit column
separation (alternatively, follow the width with one or more spaces or tabs).
If no unit is specified, ens are assumed.  This modifier sets the default line
length used in a text block.  Expand the column.  After computing the column
widths, distribute any remaining line length evenly over all columns bearing
this modifier.	Applying the to more than one column is a GNU extension.  This
modifier sets the default line length used in a text block.  Ignore the table
entries corresponding to this column for width calculation purposes; that is,
compute the column's width using only the information in its descriptor.  A
numeric suffix on a column descriptor sets the separation distance (in ens)
from the succeeding column; the default separation is This separation is
proportionally multiplied if the region option is in effect; in the case of
tables wider than the output line length, this separation might be zero.  A
negative separation cannot be specified.  A separation amount after the last
column in a row is nonsensical and provokes a diagnostic from The table data
come after the format specification.  Each input line corresponds to a table
row, except that a backslash at the end of a line of table data continues an
entry on the next input line.  (Text blocks, discussed below, also spread
table entries across multiple input lines.)  Table entries within a row are
separated in the input by a tab character by default; see the region option
above.	Excess entries in a row of table data (those that have no
corresponding column descriptor, not even an implicit one arising from
rectangularization of the table) are discarded with a diagnostic message.
control lines are accepted between rows of table data and within text blocks.
If you wish to visibly mark an empty table entry in the document source,
populate it with the dummy character.  The table data are interrupted by a
line consisting of the input token, and conclude with the line Ordinarily, a
table entry is typeset rigidly.	 It is not filled, broken, hyphenated,
adjusted, or populated with additional inter-sentence space.  instructs the
formatter to measure each table entry as it occurs in the input, updating the
width required by its corresponding column.  If the modifier applies to the
column, this measurement is ignored; if applies and its argument is larger
than this width, that argument is used instead.	 In contrast to conventional
input (within a paragraph, say), changes to text formatting, such as font
selection or vertical spacing, do not persist between entries.	Several forms
of table entry are interpreted specially.  If a table row contains only an
underscore or equals sign or a single or double horizontal rule (line),
respectively, is drawn across the table at that point.	A table entry
containing only or on an otherwise populated row is replaced by a single or
double horizontal rule, respectively, joining its neighbors.  Prefixing a lone
underscore or equals sign with a backslash also has meaning.  If a table entry
consists only of or on an otherwise populated row, it is replaced by a single
or double horizontal rule, respectively, that does (quite) join its neighbors.
A table entry consisting of , where any ordinary or special character, is
replaced by enough repetitions of the glyph corresponding to fill the column,
albeit without joining its neighbors.  On any row but the first, a table entry
of causes the entry above it to span down into the current one.	 On occasion,
these special tokens may be required as literal table data.  To use either or
literally and alone in an entry, prefix or suffix it with the dummy character
To express or use a escape sequence to interpolate the backslash or A reliable
way to emplace the glyph sequence within a table entry is to use a pair of
special character escape sequences Rows of table entries can be interleaved
with control lines; these do not count as table data.  On such lines the
default control character must be used (and not changed); the no-break control
character is not recognized.  To start the first table entry in a row with a
dot, precede it with the dummy character An ordinary table entry's contents
can make a column, and therefore the table, excessively wide; the table then
exceeds the line length of the page, and becomes ugly or is exposed to
truncation by the output device.  When a table entry requires more
conventional typesetting, breaking across more than one output line (and
thereby increasing the height of its row), it can be placed within a
interprets a table entry beginning with at the end of an input line not as
table data, but as a token starting a text block.  Similarly, at the start of
an input line ends a text block; it must also end the table entry.  Text block
tokens can share an input line with other table data (preceding and following
Input lines between these tokens are formatted in a diversion by Text blocks
cannot be nested.  Multiple text blocks can occur in a table row.  Text blocks
are formatted as was the text prior to the table, modified by applicable
column descriptors.  Specifically, the classifiers and determine a text
block's within its cell, but not its Add or requests to the beginning of a
text block to alter its adjustment distinctly from other text in the document.
As with other table entries, when a text block ends, any alterations to
formatting parameters are discarded.  They do not affect subsequent table
entries, not even other text blocks.  If or modifiers are not specified for
columns of a text block's span, the default length of the text block (more
precisely, the line length used to process the text block diversion) is
computed as where is the current line length, the number of columns spanned by
the text block, and the number of columns in the table.	 If necessary, you can
also control a text block's width by including an (line length) request in it
prior to any text to be formatted.  Because a diversion is used to format the
text block, its height and width are subsequently available in the registers
and respectively.  The register stores the width of the table region in basic
units; it can't be used within the region itself, but is defined before the
token is output so that a macro named can make use of it.  is a Boolean-valued
register indicating whether the bottom of the table is being processed.	 The
register marks the top of the table.  Avoid using these names for any other
purpose.  also defines a macro to produce the bottom and side lines of a boxed
table.	While itself arranges for the output to include a call of this macro
at the end of such a table, it can also be used by macro packages to create
boxes for multi-page tables by calling it from a page footer macro that is
itself called by a trap planted near the bottom of the page.  See section
“Limitations” below for more on multi-page tables.  GNU internally employs
register, string, macro, and diversion names beginning with the A document to
be preprocessed with GNU should not use any such identifiers.  should always
be called before (automatically arranges preprocessors in the correct order.)
Don't call the and macros within tables; instead, set up delimiters in your
input and use the region option so that will recognize them.
In addition to extensions noted above, GNU removes constraints endured by
users of AT&T Region options can be specified in any lettercase.  There is no
limit on the number of columns in a table, regardless of their classification,
nor any limit on the number of text blocks.  All table rows are considered
when deciding column widths, not just those occurring in the first 200 input
lines of a region.  Similarly, table continuation tokens are recognized
outside a region's first 200 input lines.  Numeric and alphabetic entries may
appear in the same column.  Numeric and alphabetic entries may span
horizontally.  You can embed a table region inside a macro definition.
However, since writes its own macro definitions at the beginning of each table
region, it is necessary to call end macros instead of ending macro definitions
with Additionally, the escape character must be disabled.  Not all features
can be exercised from such macros because is a preprocessor: it sees the input
earlier than does.  For example, vertically aligning decimal separators fails
if the numbers containing them occur as macro or string parameters; the
alignment is performed by itself, which sees only and so on, and therefore
can't recognize a decimal separator that only appears later when interpolates
a macro or string definition.  Using macros within conditional input (that is,
contingent upon an or request) can result in misleading line numbers in
subsequent diagnostics.	 unconditionally injects its output into the source
document, but the conditional branch containing it may not be taken, and if it
is not, the requests that injects to restore the source line number cannot
take effect.  Consider copying the input line counter register and restoring
its value at a convenient location after applicable arithmetic.
displays a usage message, while and show version information; all exit
afterward.  Enable AT&T compatibility mode: recognize and even when followed
by a character other than space or newline.  Furthermore, interpret the
uninterpreted leader escape sequence Multi-page tables, if boxed and/or if you
want their column headings repeated after page breaks, require support at the
time the document is formatted.	 A convention for such support has arisen in
macro packages such as and To use it, follow the token with a space and then
this will be interpreted by the formatter as a macro call with an argument.
Then, within the table data, call the macro; this informs the macro package
where the headings end.	 If your table has no such heading rows, or you do not
desire their repetition, call immediately after the table format
specification.	If a multi-page table is boxed or has repeating column
headings, do not enclose it with keep/release macros, or divert it in any
other way.  Further, the request will not cause a page break in a table.
Define a macro to wrap invoke it normally if there is no current diversion.
Otherwise, pass the macro call to the enclosing diversion using the
transparent line escape sequence this will “bubble up” the page break to the
output device.	See section “Examples” below for a demonstration.  Double
horizontal rules are not supported by single rules are used instead.  also
ignores half-line motions, so the column modifier has no effect.  On terminal
devices horizontal rules and box borders occupy a full vee of space; this
amount is doubled for tables.  Tables using these features thus require more
vertical space in mode than in mode: write requests accordingly.  Vertical
rules between columns are drawn in the space between columns in mode; using
double vertical rules and/or reducing the column separation below the default
can make them ugly or overstrike them with table data.	A text block within a
table must be able to fit on one page.	Using to put leaders in table entries
does not work in GNU except in compatibility mode.  This is correct behavior:
is an leader.  You can still use the leader character (Control+A) or define a
string to use as it was designed: to be interpreted only in copy mode.	.ds a
\a .TS box center tab(;); Lw(2i)0 L.  Population\*a;6,327,119 .TE
		       ┌──────────────────────────────┐
		       │Population?	    6,327,119 │
		       └──────────────────────────────┘
A leading and/or trailing in a format specification, such as produces an en
space between the vertical rules and the content of the adjacent columns.  If
no such space is desired (so that the rule abuts the content), you can
introduce “dummy” columns with zero separation and empty corresponding table
entries before and/or after.  .TS center tab(#); R0|L C R0|L.  _
#levulose#glucose#dextrose# _ .TE These dummy columns have zero width and are
therefore invisible; unfortunately they usually don't work as intended on
terminal devices.  It can be easier to acquire the language of through
examples than formal description, especially at first.	.TS box center tab(#);
Cb Cb L L.  Ability#Application Strength#crushes a tomato Dexterity#dodges a
thrown tomato Constitution#eats a month-old tomato without becoming ill
Intelligence#knows that a tomato is a fruit Wisdom#chooses \f[I]not\f[] to put
tomato in a fruit salad Charisma#sells obligate carnivores tomato-based fruit
salads .TE
     ┌───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
     │	Ability				 Application			 │
     │Strength	     crushes a tomato					 │
     │Dexterity	     dodges a thrown tomato				 │
     │Constitution   eats a month-old tomato without becoming ill	 │
     │Intelligence   knows that a tomato is a fruit			 │
     │Wisdom	     chooses not to put tomato in a fruit salad		 │
     │Charisma	     sells obligate carnivores tomato-based fruit salads │
     └───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
The and column classifiers can be easier to grasp in visual rendering than in
description.  .TS center tab(;); CbS,LN,AN.  Daily energy intake (in MJ)
Macronutrients .\" assume 3 significant figures of precision Carbohydrates;4.5
Fats;2.25 Protein;3 .T& LN,AN.	Mineral Pu-239;14.6 _ .T& LN.  Total;\[ti]24.4
.TE
			 Daily energy intake (in MJ)
			 Macronutrients
			  Carbohydrates	       4.5
			  Fats		       2.25
			  Protein	       3
			 Mineral
			  Pu-239	      14.6
			 ────────────────────────────
			 Total		  ~24.4
Next, we'll lightly adapt a compact presentation of spanning, vertical
alignment, and zero-width column modifiers from the reference for its
interpreter.  It rewards close study.  .TS box center tab(:); Lz  S | Rt Ld|
Cb| ^ ^ | Rz  S.  left:r l:center: :right .TE
			       ┌───────────┬───┐
			       │left	   │ r │
			       │l │ center │   │
			       │  │	 right │
			       └──┴────────────┘
Row staggering is not visually achievable on terminal devices, but a table
using it can remain comprehensible nonetheless.	 .TS center tab(|); Cf(BI)
Cf(BI) Cf(B), C C Cu.  n|n\f[B]\[tmu]\f[]n|difference 1|1 2|4|3 3|9|5 4|16|7
5|25|9 6|36|11 .TE
			     n	 n×n   difference
			     1	  1
			     2	  4	   3
			     3	  9	   5
			     4	 16	   7
			     5	 25	   9
			     6	 36	   11
Some features cannot be illustrated in the limited environment of a portable
man page.  We can define a macro outside of a region that we can call from
within it to cause a page break inside a multi-page boxed table.  You can
choose a different name; be sure to change both occurrences of “BP”.  .de BP .
ie '\\n(.z'' .bp \\$1 .	 el \!.BP \\$1 ..  “Tbl—A Program to Format Tables”,
by M. E. Lesk, 1976 (revised 16 January 1979), AT&T Bell Laboratories
Computing Science Technical Report No. 49.  The spanning example above was
taken from man page for its implementation


