gvmap - find clusters and create a geographical map highlighting clusters.  [
] [ ] [ ] takes as input a graph in DOT format, finds node clusters and
produces a rendering of the graph as a geographic-style map, with clusters
highlighted as countries, in xdot format.  In the input graph, each node must
have position, width and height information (pos, width and height attributes,
respectively) defined, and nodes must not overlap.  By default, will generate
the clusters from the data. If desired, the input graph can specify cluster
information by giving every node a cluster attribute whose value is a small
positive integer. (It is works best if cluster values are all integers in the
interval [1,K] for some K. Nodes sharing the same cluster attribute value will
be put into the same cluster. N.B. For the cluster attribute to be used, all
nodes must have a valid value.	If the -D flag is used, will use the top-level
cluster subgraphs to determine the clustering. Any nodes not in such a cluster
will be put into a single catch-all cluster.  If the input specifies the
desired clustering as described above, it can also specify a desired coloring
by having some node in each cluster provide a clustercolor attribute. N.B.
Unless one specifies -c0, only the clustercolor of the last node in a cluster
has an effect. In addition, unless one uses -O, gvmap may permute the given
colors.	 The following options are supported: The integer k specifies the
average number of artificial points added along the bounding box of the
labels. Such artificial points are added to avoid a country boundary cutting
through the boundary box of the labels. Computing time is proportional to k;
hence, for large graphs, a small value of k is suggested. If k = -1, a
suitable value of k is automatically selected based on the graph size. By
default k = -1.	 The real number v specifies the line width used to draw the
polygon boundaries, with v < 0 for no line. By default v = 0.  The integer k
specifies color scheme used to color the countries. By default k = 1.
   Acceptable values are:
   0 : no polygons
   1 : pastel
   2 : blue to yellow
   3 : white to red
   4 : light grey to red
   5 : primary colors
   6 : sequential single hue red
   7 : sequential single hue lighter red
   8 : light grey Specifies a two-character hexadecimal string specifying the
opacity of the polygons.  The integer d specifies the maximum number of
clusters (countries) allowed. By default d = 0, which means that there is no
limit.	The integer d specifies the random seed used during color assignment
optimization that maximize color difference between neighboring countries.  If
specified, the graph's cluster subgraphs are used to specify the clustering.
If specified, edges will be included in the final output.  Specifies the
bounding box color. If not specified, a bounding box is not drawn.  The number
of artificial points added to maintain a bridge between endpoints. By default,
this is zero.  Only draw cluster k. By default, all clusters are drawn.	 If
specified, increases the randomness of outer boundary.	Use the string s as a
label for the drawing.	Generate a margin of v points around the drawing. By
default, this is determined by gvmap.  Do NOT do color assignment optimization
that maximizes color differences between neighboring countries Put output in
<file>. Default output is stdout Indicates what level of points should be
shown. By default, no points are shown.
   Acceptable values are:
   0 : no points
   1 : all points
   2 : label points
   3 : random/artificial points Use modularity quality for clustering rather
than the default modularity clustering.	 The number of random points k
(integer) used to define sea and lake boundaries. If 0, auto assigned. By
default v = 0 The real number v specifies the depth of the sea and lake shores
in points. If 0, auto assigned. By default v = 0.  Make n attempts to improve
cluster contiguity.  Verbose mode.  Specified the polygon line color. Default
is black.  Print usage and exit.  Given a graph foo.gv, one way to generate a
layout and highlight the clusters is to first select a layout engine with a
suitable overlap removal method, then feed the output to gvmap, and finally
render the map using specific graphics format. For example, the following
pipeline creates a map with edges in semi-transparent light gray and nodes
laid out using sfdp: sfdp -Goverlap=prism foo.gv | gvmap -e | neato -n2
-Ecolor=#55555522 -Tpng > foo.png The shell script gvmap.sh provides a
shorthand for such pipelines. For example, the above pipeline can be achieved
using gvmap.sh -Ae -Ecolor=#55555522 -Tpng foo.gv > foo.png


Yifan Hu <yifanhu@yahoo.com> gvmap.sh(1), sfdp(1), neato(1), gvpr(1) E. R.
Gansner, Y. Hu, S. G. Kobourov, "GMap: Visualizing graphs and clusters as
maps," Proc. Pacific Vis. 2010, pp. 201‐208.


