gvmap.sh - pipeline for running gvmap [-vV?] [ ] [ ] [ ] takes as input a
graph in DOT format, performs a layout, runs the output through gvmap and
renders the output. At some point, it is hoped to integrate all of these tasks
into gvmap.  The following options are supported: The integer k specifies the
average number of artificial points added along the bounding box of the
labels. Such artificial points are added to avoid a country boundary cutting
through the boundary box of the labels. Computing time is proportional to k;
hence, for large graphs, a small value of k is suggested. If k = -1, a
suitable value of k is automatically selected based on the graph size. By
default k = -1.	 specifies which program should be use for the initial layout.
By default, sfdp is run. Also by default, the layout is passed the flag
-Goverlap=prism. This can be overridden using a -g flag.  specifies the final
output format. This works the same way as the -T flag for any Graphviz layout
program.  specifies the setting of a default node attribute during the
rendering phase. This works the same way as the -N flag for any Graphviz
layout program.	 specifies the setting of a graph attribute during the
rendering phase. This works the same way as the -G flag for any Graphviz
layout program.	 specifies the setting of a default edge attribute during the
rendering phase. This works the same way as the -E flag for any Graphviz
layout program.	 specifies the setting of a default node attribute during the
layout phase. This works the same way as the -N flag for any Graphviz layout
program.  specifies the setting of a graph attribute during the layout phase.
This works the same way as the -G flag for any Graphviz layout program.
specifies the setting of a default edge attribute during the layout phase.
This works the same way as the -E flag for any Graphviz layout program.
specifies a flag to be passed to gvmap. For example, gvmap.sh -Ae -As3 causes
gvmap -e -s3 to be run.	 Set verbose mode.  Print version information and
exit.  Print usage information and exit.

The following invocation creates a map with edges in semi-transparent light
gray and nodes laid out using sfdp: gvmap.sh -Ae -Ecolor=#55555522 -Tpng
foo.gv > foo.png It is equivalent to running the pipeline sfdp -Goverlap=prism
foo.gv | gvmap -e | neato -n2 -Ecolor=#55555522 -Tpng > foo.png

Emden R. Gansner <erg@research.att.com> gvmap(1), sfdp(1), neato(1), gvpr(1)
E. R. Gansner, Y. Hu, S. G. Kobourov, "GMap: Visualizing graphs and clusters
as maps," Proc. Pacific Vis. 2010, pp. 201‐208.


