homectl, systemd-homed-firstboot.service - Create, remove, change or inspect
home directories homectl [OPTIONS...] <CMD> [NAME...]  homectl may be used
to create, remove, change or inspect a user's home directory. It's primarily a
command interfacing with systemd-homed.service(8) which manages home
directories of users.  Home directories managed by systemd-homed.service are
self-contained, and thus include the user's full metadata record in the home's
data storage itself, making them easy to migrate between machines. In
particular, a home directory describes a matching user record, and every user
record managed by systemd-homed.service also implies existence and
encapsulation of a home directory. The user account and home directory become
the same concept.  The following backing storage mechanisms are supported:

•   An individual LUKS2 encrypted loopback file for a user, stored in
/home/*.home. At login the file system contained in this files is mounted,
after the LUKS2 encrypted volume has been attached. The user's password is
identical to the encryption passphrase of the LUKS2 volume. Access to data
without preceding user authentication is thus not possible, even for the
system administrator. This storage mechanism provides the strongest data
security and is thus recommended.

•   Similar, but the LUKS2 encrypted file system is located on regular block
device, such as a USB storage stick. In this mode home directories and all
data they include are nicely migratable between machines, simply by plugging
the USB stick into different systems at different times.

•   An encrypted directory using "fscrypt" on file systems that support it (at
the moment this is primarily "ext4"), located in /home/*.homedir. This
mechanism also provides encryption, but substantially weaker than LUKS2, as
most file system metadata is unprotected. Moreover it currently does not
support changing user passwords once the home directory has been created.

•   A "btrfs" subvolume for each user, also located in /home/*.homedir. This
provides no encryption, but good quota support.

•   A regular directory for each user, also located in /home/*.homedir. This
provides no encryption, but is a suitable fallback available on all machines,
even where LUKS2, "fscrypt" or "btrfs" support is not available.

•   An individual Windows file share (CIFS) for each user.  Note that
systemd-homed.service and homectl will not manage "classic" UNIX user accounts
as created with useradd(8) or similar tools. In particular, this functionality
is not suitable for managing system users (i.e. users with a UID below 1000)
but is exclusive to regular ("human") users.  Note that users/home directories
managed via systemd-homed.service do not show up in /etc/passwd and similar
files, they are synthesized via glibc NSS during runtime. They are thus
resolvable and may be enumerated via the getent(1) tool.  This tool interfaces
directly with systemd-homed.service, and may execute specific commands on the
home directories it manages. Since every home directory managed that way also
defines a JSON user and group record these home directories may also be
inspected and enumerated via userdbctl(1).  Home directories managed by
systemd-homed.service are usually in one of two states, or in a transition
state between them: when "active" they are unlocked and mounted, and thus
accessible to the system and its programs; when "inactive" they are not
mounted and thus not accessible. Activation happens automatically at login of
the user and usually can only complete after a password (or other
authentication token) has been supplied. Deactivation happens after the user
fully logged out. A home directory remains active as long as the user is
logged in at least once, i.e. has at least one login session. When the user
logs in a second time simultaneously the home directory remains active. It is
deactivated only after the last of the user's sessions ends.  The following
general options are understood (further options that control the various
properties of user records managed by systemd-homed.service are documented
further down): --identity=FILE Read the user's JSON record from the specified
file. If passed as "-" read the user record from standard input. The supplied
JSON object must follow the structure documented in JSON User Records[1]. This
option may be used in conjunction with the create and update commands (see
below), where it allows configuring the user record in JSON as-is, instead of
setting the individual user record properties (see below).

Added in version 245.  --json=FORMAT, -j Controls whether to output the user
record in JSON format, if the inspect command (see below) is used. Takes one
of "pretty", "short" or "off". If "pretty" human-friendly whitespace and
newlines are inserted in the output to make the JSON data more readable. If
"short" all superfluous whitespace is suppressed. If "off" (the default) the
user information is not shown in JSON format but in a friendly human-readable
formatting instead. The -j option picks "pretty" when run interactively and
"short" otherwise.

Added in version 245.  --export-format=FORMAT, -E, -EE When used with the
inspect verb in JSON mode (see above) may be used to suppress certain aspects
of the JSON user record on output. Specifically, if "stripped" format is used
the binding and runtime fields of the record are removed. If "minimal" format
is used the cryptographic signature is removed too. If "full" format is used
the full JSON record is shown (this is the default). This option is useful for
copying an existing user record to a different system in order to create a
similar user there with the same settings. Specifically: homectl inspect -EE |
ssh root@othersystem homectl create -i- may be used as simple command line for
replicating a user on another host.  -E is equivalent to -j
--export-format=stripped, -EE to -j --export-format=minimal. Note that when
replicating user accounts user records acquired in "stripped" mode will retain
the original cryptographic signatures and thus may only be modified when the
private key to update them is available on the destination machine. When
replicating users in "minimal" mode, the signature is removed during the
replication and thus the record will be implicitly signed with the key of the
destination machine and may be updated there without any private key
replication.

Added in version 245.  --offline Do not attempt to update the copy of the user
record and blob directory that is embedded inside of the home area. This
allows for operation on home areas that are absent, or without needing to
authenticate as the user being modified.

Added in version 256.  --key-name= When used with the add-signing-key command,
specify or override the name under which to store the public key being added.
The specified name can be chosen freely, but must be suffixed with ".public".
If this option is not used the name is derived from the specified filename. If
a key is read from standard input this option is mandatory in order to provide
a suitable name for the key being added.

Added in version 258.  --seize= Takes a boolean argument. When used with
create or register, controls whether to strip cryptographic signatures from
the provided JSON user records, which has the effect of signing them with the
local signing key (local.public) instead. If this switch is set to true, added
user records hence become locally managed (and thus can be modified locally),
while if it is set to false the user records remain managed and owned by its
origin (and thus cannot be modified locally). This switch defaults to true for
create and false for register.

Added in version 258.  --prompt-new-user If used in conjunction with firstboot
and no regular user account exists on the system so far the tool will
interactively query for user information and create an account.

Added in version 256.  --match=, -A, -N, -T Takes one of "this", "other",
"any" or "auto". Some user record settings can be defined to match only
specific machines, or all machines but one, or all machines. With this switch
it is possibly to control to which machines to apply the settings appearing on
the command line after it. If "this" is specified the setting will only apply
to the local system (positive match), if "other" it will apply to all but the
local system (negative match), if "any" it will apply to all systems (unless
there's a matching positive or negative per-machine setting). If "auto"
returns to the default logic: whether a setting applies by default to the
local system or all systems depends on the option in question.

Note that only some user record settings can be conditioned like this. This
option has no effect on the others and is ignored there. This option may
appear multiple times in a single command line to apply settings conditioned
by different matches to the same user record. See JSON User Records[1] for
details on which settings may be used with such per-machine matching and which
ones may not.

-A is a shortcut for --match=any, -T is short for --match=this and -N is short
for --match=other.

Here's an example call that sets the storage field to "luks" on the local
system, but to "cifs" on all others:

# homectl update lennart -T --storage=luks -N --storage=cifs

Added in version 258.  -H, --host= Execute the operation remotely. Specify a
hostname, or a username and hostname separated by "@", to connect to. The
hostname may optionally be suffixed by a port ssh is listening on, separated
by ":", and then a container name, separated by "/", which connects directly
to a specific container on the specified host. This will use SSH to talk to
the remote machine manager instance. Container names may be enumerated with
machinectl -H HOST. Put IPv6 addresses in brackets.  -M, --machine= Execute
operation on a local container. Specify a container name to connect to,
optionally prefixed by a user name to connect as and a separating "@"
character. If the special string ".host" is used in place of the container
name, a connection to the local system is made (which is useful to connect to
a specific user's user bus: "--user --machine=lennart@.host"). If the "@"
syntax is not used, the connection is made as root user. If the "@" syntax is
used either the left hand side or the right hand side may be omitted (but not
both) in which case the local user name and ".host" are implied.  --no-pager
Do not pipe output into a pager.  --no-legend Do not print the legend, i.e.
column headers and the footer with hints.  --no-ask-password Do not query the
user for authentication for privileged operations.  -h, --help Print a short
help text and exit.  --version Print a short version string and exit.  The
following options control various properties of the user records/home
directories that systemd-homed.service manages. These switches may be used in
conjunction with the create and update commands for configuring various
aspects of the home directory and the user account: --real-name=NAME, -c NAME
The real name for the user. This corresponds with the GECOS field on classic
UNIX NSS records.

Added in version 245.  --realm=REALM The realm for the user. The realm
associates a user with a specific organization or installation, and allows
distinguishing users of the same name defined in different contexts. The realm
can be any string that also qualifies as valid DNS domain name, and it is
recommended to use the organization's or installation's domain name for this
purpose, but this is not enforced nor required. On each system only a single
user of the same name may exist, and if a user with the same name and realm is
seen it is assumed to refer to the same user while a user with the same name
but different realm is considered a different user. Note that this means that
two users sharing the same name but with distinct realms are not allowed on
the same system. Assigning a realm to a user is optional.

Added in version 245.  --alias=NAME[,NAME...] Additional names for the user.
Takes one or more valid UNIX user names, separated by commas. May be used
multiple times to define multiple aliases. An alias username may be specified
wherever the primary user name may be specified, and resolves to the same user
record.

Added in version 258.  --email-address=EMAIL Takes an electronic mail address
to associate with the user. On log-in the $EMAIL environment variable is
initialized from this value.

Added in version 245.  --location=TEXT Takes location specification for this
user. This is free-form text, which might or might not be usable by
geo-location applications. Example: --location="Berlin, Germany" or
--location="Basement, Room 3a"

Added in version 245.  --icon-name=ICON Takes an icon name to associate with
the user, following the scheme defined by the Icon Naming Specification[2].

Added in version 245.  --home-dir=PATH, -dPATH Takes a path to use as home
directory for the user. Note that this is the directory the user's home
directory is mounted to while the user is logged in. This is not where the
user's data is actually stored, see --image-path= for that. If not specified,
defaults to /home/$USER.

Added in version 245.  --uid=UID Takes a preferred numeric UNIX UID to assign
this user. If a user is to be created with the specified UID and it is already
taken by a different user on the local system then creation of the home
directory is refused. Note though, if after creating the home directory it is
used on a different system and the configured UID is taken by another user
there, then systemd-homed may assign the user a different UID on that system.
The specified UID must be outside of the system user range. It is recommended
to use the 60001...60513 UID range for this purpose. If not specified, the UID
is automatically picked. If the home directory is found to be owned by a
different UID when logging in, the home directory and everything underneath it
will have its ownership changed automatically before login completes.

Note that changing this option for existing home directories generally has no
effect on home directories that already have been registered locally (have a
local binding), as the UID used for an account on the local system is
determined when the home directory is first activated on it, and then remains
in effect until the home directory is removed.

Note that users managed by systemd-homed always have a matching group
associated with the same name as well as a GID matching the UID of the user.
Thus, configuring the GID separately is not permitted.

Added in version 245.  --member-of=GROUP, -G GROUP Takes a comma-separated
list of auxiliary UNIX groups this user shall belong to. Example:
--member-of=wheel to provide the user with administrator privileges. Note that
systemd-homed does not manage any groups besides a group matching the user in
name and numeric UID/GID. Thus any groups listed here must be registered
independently, for example with groupadd(8). Any non-existent groups are
ignored. This option may be used more than once, in which case all specified
group lists are combined. If the user is currently a member of a group which
is not listed, the user will be removed from the group.

Added in version 245.  --capability-bounding-set=CAPABILITIES,
--capability-ambient-set=CAPABILITIES These options take a space separated
list of process capabilities (e.g.  CAP_WAKE_ALARM, CAP_BLOCK_SUSPEND, ...)
that shall be set in the capability bounding and ambient sets for all the
user's sessions. See capabilities(7) for details on the capabilities concept.
These options may be used more than once, in which case the specified lists
are combined. If the parameter begins with a "~" character the effect is
inverted: the specified capability is dropped from the specific set.

Added in version 254.  --access-mode=MODE Takes a UNIX file access mode
written in octal. Configures the access mode of the home directory itself.
Note that this is only used when the directory is first created, and the user
may change this any time afterwards. Example: --access-mode=0700

Added in version 245.  --umask=MASK Takes the access mode mask (in octal
syntax) to apply to newly created files and directories of the user ("umask").
If set this controls the initial umask set for all login sessions of the user,
possibly overriding the system's defaults.

Added in version 245.  --skel=PATH Takes a file system path to a directory.
Specifies the skeleton directory to initialize the home directory with. All
files and directories in the specified path are copied into any newly create
home directory. If not specified, defaults to /etc/skel/.

Added in version 245.  --shell=SHELL Takes a file system path. Specifies the
shell binary to execute on terminal logins. If not specified, defaults to
/bin/bash.

Added in version 245.  --setenv=VARIABLE[=VALUE] Takes an environment variable
assignment to set for all user processes. May be used multiple times to set
multiple environment variables. When "=" and VALUE are omitted, the value of
the variable with the same name in the program environment will be used.

Note that a number of other settings also result in environment variables to
be set for the user, including --email=, --timezone= and --language=.

Added in version 245.  --timezone=TIMEZONE Takes a time zone location name
that sets the timezone for the specified user. When the user logs in the $TZ
environment variable is initialized from this setting. Example:
--timezone=Europe/Amsterdam will result in the environment variable
"TZ=:Europe/Amsterdam". (":" is used intentionally as part of the timezone
specification, see tzset(3).)

Added in version 245.  --language=LANG Takes a comma- or colon-separated list
of languages preferred by the user, ordered by descending priority. The $LANG
and $LANGUAGE environment variables are initialized from this value on login,
and thus values suitable for these environment variables are accepted here,
for example --language=de_DE.UTF-8. This option may be used more than once, in
which case the language lists are concatenated.

Added in version 245.  --default-area=AREA Takes a string identifying a home
directory "area" to use as default. Areas are secondary home directories
within the primary home directory of a user. When logging in a user can
specify the area they wish to log into, which ensures that the $HOME
environment variable is set to ~/Areas/ suffixed by the area name.

For details on the area concept see pam_systemd_home(8). Note that this option
just defines the default, which can be overridden at login time.

When this option is specified with an empty string as value any previously
declared default area is removed from the user record.

Added in version 258.  --ssh-authorized-keys=KEYS Either takes a SSH
authorized key line to associate with the user record or a "@" character
followed by a path to a file to read one or more such lines from. SSH keys
configured this way are made available to SSH to permit access to this home
directory and user record. This option may be used more than once to configure
multiple SSH keys.

Added in version 245.  --pkcs11-token-uri=URI Takes an RFC 7512 PKCS#11 URI
referencing a security token (e.g. YubiKey or PIV smartcard) that shall be
able to unlock the user account. The security token URI should reference a
security token with exactly one pair of X.509 certificate and private key. A
random secret key is then generated, encrypted with the public key of the
X.509 certificate, and stored as part of the user record. At login time it is
decrypted with the PKCS#11 module and then used to unlock the account and
associated resources. See below for an example how to set up authentication
with a security token.

Instead of a valid PKCS#11 URI, the special strings "list" and "auto" may be
specified. If "list" is passed, a brief table of suitable, currently plugged
in PKCS#11 hardware tokens is shown, along with their URIs. If "auto" is
passed, a suitable PKCS#11 hardware token is automatically selected (this
operation will fail if there isn't exactly one suitable token discovered). The
latter is a useful shortcut for the most common case where a single PKCS#11
hardware token is plugged in.

Note that many hardware security tokens implement both PKCS#11/PIV and FIDO2
with the "hmac-secret" extension (for example: the YubiKey 5 series), as
supported with the --fido2-device= option below. Both mechanisms are similarly
powerful, though FIDO2 is the more modern technology. PKCS#11/PIV tokens have
the benefit of being recognizable before authentication and hence can be used
for implying the user identity to use for logging in, which FIDO2 does not
allow. PKCS#11/PIV devices generally require initialization (i.e. storing a
private/public key pair on them, see example below) before they can be used;
FIDO2 security tokens generally do not required that, and work out of the box.

Added in version 245.  --fido2-credential-algorithm=STRING Specify COSE
algorithm used in credential generation. The default value is "es256".
Supported values are "es256", "rs256" and "eddsa".

"es256" denotes ECDSA over NIST P-256 with SHA-256.  "rs256" denotes 2048-bit
RSA with PKCS#1.5 padding and SHA-256.	"eddsa" denotes EDDSA over Curve25519
with SHA-512.

Note that your authenticator may choose not to support some algorithms.

Added in version 251.  --fido2-device=PATH Takes a path to a Linux "hidraw"
device (e.g.  /dev/hidraw1), referring to a FIDO2 security token implementing
the "hmac-secret" extension that shall be able to unlock the user account. A
random salt value is generated on the host and passed to the FIDO2 device,
which calculates a HMAC hash of the salt using an internal secret key. The
result is then used as the key to unlock the user account. The random salt is
included in the user record, so that whenever authentication is needed it can
be passed to the FIDO2 token again.

Instead of a valid path to a FIDO2 "hidraw" device the special strings "list"
and "auto" may be specified. If "list" is passed, a brief table of suitable
discovered FIDO2 devices is shown. If "auto" is passed, a suitable FIDO2 token
is automatically selected, if exactly one is discovered. The latter is a
useful shortcut for the most common case where a single FIDO2 hardware token
is plugged in.

Note that FIDO2 devices suitable for this option must implement the
"hmac-secret" extension. Most current devices (such as the YubiKey 5 series)
do. If the extension is not implemented the device cannot be used for
unlocking home directories.

The FIDO2 device may be subsequently removed by setting the device path to an
empty string (e.g.  homectl update $USER --fido2-device="").

Note that many hardware security tokens implement both FIDO2 and PKCS#11/PIV
(and thus may be used with either --fido2-device= or --pkcs11-token-uri=), for
a discussion see above.

Added in version 246.  --fido2-with-client-pin=BOOL When enrolling a FIDO2
security token, controls whether to require the user to enter a PIN when
unlocking the account (the FIDO2 "clientPin" feature). Defaults to "yes".
(Note: this setting is without effect if the security token does not support
the "clientPin" feature at all, or does not allow enabling or disabling it.)

Added in version 249.  --fido2-with-user-presence=BOOL When enrolling a FIDO2
security token, controls whether to require the user to verify presence (tap
the token, the FIDO2 "up" feature) when unlocking the account. Defaults to
"yes". (Note: this setting is without effect if the security token does not
support the "up" feature at all, or does not allow enabling or disabling it.)

Added in version 249.  --fido2-with-user-verification=BOOL When enrolling a
FIDO2 security token, controls whether to require user verification when
unlocking the account (the FIDO2 "uv" feature). Defaults to "no". (Note: this
setting is without effect if the security token does not support the "uv"
feature at all, or does not allow enabling or disabling it.)

Added in version 249.  --recovery-key=BOOL Accepts a boolean argument. If
enabled a recovery key is configured for the account. A recovery key is a
computer generated access key that may be used to regain access to an account
if the password has been forgotten or the authentication token lost. The key
is generated and shown on screen, and should be printed or otherwise
transferred to a secure location. A recovery key may be entered instead of a
regular password to unlock the account.

Added in version 247.  --blob=PATH, -b PATH, --blob=FILENAME=PATH, -b
FILENAME=PATH Accepts either a directory path, or a file name followed by a
file path. If just a directory path is specified, then the user's entire blob
directory is replaced the specified path. Note that this replacement is
performed before per-file manipulations are applied, which means these
per-file manipulations will be applied on top of the specified directory. If a
filename and file path are specified, then the single specified blob file will
be overwritten with the specified path. If completely blank, the entire blob
directory is emptied out (which also resets all previous blob-related flags up
to this point). If a filename is specified but the corresponding path is
blank, that single file will be deleted from the blob directory. All changes
are performed in temporary copies of the specified files in directories, which
means that the originals specified on the command line are not modified. See
User Record Blob Directories[3] for more information about blob directories.

Added in version 256.  --avatar=PATH, --login-background=PATH Accept a file
path. If set, the specified file is used to overwrite the corresponding file
in the user's blob directory. If blank, the corresponding file is deleted from
the blob directory. Essentially, these options are shortcuts to
--blob=FILENAME=PATH for the known filenames defined in User Record Blob
Directories[3].

Added in version 256.  --locked=BOOLEAN Takes a boolean argument. Specifies
whether this user account shall be locked. If true logins into this account
are prohibited, if false (the default) they are permitted (of course, only if
authorization otherwise succeeds).

Added in version 245.  --not-before=TIMESTAMP, --not-after=TIMESTAMP These
options take a timestamp string, in the format documented in systemd.time(7)
and configures points in time before and after logins into this account are
not permitted.

Added in version 245.  --rate-limit-interval=SECS, --rate-limit-burst=NUMBER
Configures a rate limit on authentication attempts for this user. If the user
attempts to authenticate more often than the specified number, on a specific
system, within the specified time interval authentication is refused until the
time interval passes. Defaults to 10 times per 1min.

Added in version 245.  --password-hint=TEXT Takes a password hint to store
alongside the user record. This string is stored accessible only to privileged
users and the user itself and may not be queried by other users. Example:
--password-hint="My first pet's name".

Added in version 245.  --enforce-password-policy=BOOL, -P Takes a boolean
argument. Configures whether to enforce the system's password policy for this
user, regarding quality and strength of selected passwords. Defaults to on.
-P is short for --enforce-password-policy=no.

Added in version 245.  --password-change-now=BOOL Takes a boolean argument. If
true the user is asked to change their password on next login.

Added in version 245.  --password-change-min=TIME, --password-change-max=TIME,
--password-change-warn=TIME, --password-change-inactive=TIME Each of these
options takes a time span specification as argument (in the syntax documented
in systemd.time(7)) and configures various aspects of the user's password
expiration policy. Specifically, --password-change-min= configures how much
time has to pass after changing the password of the user until the password
may be changed again. If the user tries to change their password before this
time passes the attempt is refused.  --password-change-max= configures how
soon after it has been changed the password expires and needs to be changed
again. After this time passes logging in may only proceed after the password
is changed.  --password-change-warn= specifies how much earlier than then the
time configured with --password-change-max= the user is warned at login to
change their password as it will expire soon. Finally,
--password-change-inactive= configures the time which has to pass after the
password as expired until the user is not permitted to log in or change the
password anymore. Note that these options only apply to password
authentication, and do not apply to other forms of authentication, for example
PKCS#11-based security token authentication.

Added in version 245.  --disk-size=BYTES Either takes a size in bytes as
argument (possibly using the usual K, M, G, ... suffixes for 1024 base
values), a percentage value, or the special strings "min" or "max", and
configures the disk space to assign to the user. If a percentage value is
specified (i.e. the argument suffixed with "%") it is taken relative to the
available disk space of the backing file system. If specified as "min" assigns
the minimal disk space permitted by the constraints of the backing file system
and other limits, when specified as "max" assigns the maximum disk space
available. If the LUKS2 backend is used this configures the size of the
loopback file and file system contained therein. For the other storage
backends configures disk quota using the filesystem's native quota logic, if
available. If not specified, defaults to 85% of the available disk space for
the LUKS2 backend and to no quota for the others.

Added in version 245.  --nice=NICE Takes the numeric scheduling priority
("nice level") to apply to the processes of the user at login time. Takes a
numeric value in the range -20 (highest priority) to 19 (lowest priority).

Added in version 245.  --rlimit=LIMIT=VALUE[:VALUE] Allows configuration of
resource limits for processes of this user, see getrlimit(2) for details.
Takes a resource limit name (e.g.  "LIMIT_NOFILE") followed by an equal sign,
followed by a numeric limit. Optionally, separated by colon a second numeric
limit may be specified. If two are specified this refers to the soft and hard
limits, respectively. If only one limit is specified the setting sets both
limits in one.

Added in version 245.  --tasks-max=TASKS Takes a non-zero unsigned integer as
argument. Configures the maximum number of tasks (i.e. threads, where each
process is at least one thread) the user may have at any given time. This
limit applies to all tasks forked off the user's sessions, even if they change
user identity via su(1) or a similar tool. Use --rlimit=LIMIT_NPROC= to place
a limit on the tasks actually running under the UID of the user, thus
excluding any child processes that might have changed user identity. This
controls the TasksMax= setting of the per-user systemd slice unit
user-$UID.slice. See systemd.resource-control(5) for further details.

Added in version 245.  --memory-high=BYTES, --memory-max=BYTES Set a limit on
the memory a user may take up on a system at any given time in bytes (the
usual K, M, G, ... suffixes are supported, to the base of 1024). This includes
all memory used by the user itself and all processes they forked off that
changed user credentials. This controls the MemoryHigh= and MemoryMax=
settings of the per-user systemd slice unit user-$UID.slice. See
systemd.resource-control(5) for further details.

Added in version 245.  --cpu-weight=WEIGHT, --io-weight=WEIGHT Set CPU and IO
scheduling weights of the processes of the user, including those of processes
forked off by the user that changed user credentials. Takes a numeric value in
the range 1...10000. This controls the CPUWeight= and IOWeight= settings of
the per-user systemd slice unit user-$UID.slice. See systemd.resource-
control(5) for further details.

Added in version 245.  --tmp-limit=BYTES, --tmp-limit=PERCENT,
--dev-shm-limit=BYTES, --dev-shm-limit=PERCENT Controls the per-user quota on
/tmp/ and /dev/shm/ that is applied when the user logs in. Takes either an
absolute value in bytes (with the usual K, M, G, T suffixes to the base of
1024), or a percentage. In the latter case the limit is applied relative to
the size of the respective file system. This limit is only applied if the
relevant file system is "tmpfs" and has no effect otherwise. Note that if
these options are not used, a default quota might still be enforced (typically
80%.)

Added in version 258.  --storage=STORAGE Selects the storage mechanism to use
for this home directory. Takes one of "luks", "fscrypt", "directory",
"subvolume", "cifs". For details about these mechanisms, see above. If a new
home directory is created and the storage type is not specifically specified,
homed.conf(5) defines which default storage to use.

Added in version 245.  --image-path=PATH Takes a file system path. Configures
where to place the user's home directory. When LUKS2 storage is used refers to
the path to the loopback file, otherwise to the path to the home directory
(which may be in /home/ or any other accessible filesystem). When unspecified
defaults to /home/$USER.home when LUKS storage is used and /home/$USER.homedir
for the other storage mechanisms. Not defined for the "cifs" storage
mechanism. To use LUKS2 storage on a regular block device (for example a USB
stick) pass the path to the block device here. Specifying the path to a
directory here when using LUKS2 storage is not allowed. Similar, specifying
the path to a regular file or device node is not allowed if any of the other
storage backends are used.

Added in version 245.  --drop-caches=BOOL Automatically flush OS file system
caches on logout. This is useful in combination with the fscrypt storage
backend to ensure the OS does not keep decrypted versions of the files and
directories in memory (and accessible) after logout. This option is also
supported on other backends, but should not bring any benefit there. Defaults
to off, except if the selected storage backend is fscrypt, where it defaults
to on. Note that flushing OS caches will negatively influence performance of
the OS shortly after logout.

Added in version 250.  --fs-type=TYPE When LUKS2 storage is used configures
the file system type to use inside the home directory LUKS2 container. One of
"btrfs", "ext4", "xfs". If not specified homed.conf(5) defines which default
file system type to use. Note that "xfs" is not recommended as its support for
file system resizing is too limited.

Added in version 245.  --luks-discard=BOOL When LUKS2 storage is used
configures whether to enable the "discard" feature of the file system. If
enabled the file system on top of the LUKS2 volume will report empty block
information to LUKS2 and the loopback file below, ensuring that empty space in
the home directory is returned to the backing file system below the LUKS2
volume, resulting in a "sparse" loopback file. This option mostly defaults to
off, since this permits over-committing home directories which results in I/O
errors if the underlying file system runs full while the upper file system
wants to allocate a block. Such I/O errors are generally not handled well by
file systems nor applications. When LUKS2 storage is used on top of regular
block devices (instead of on top a loopback file) the discard logic defaults
to on.

Added in version 245.  --luks-offline-discard=BOOL Similar to --luks-discard=,
controls the trimming of the file system. However, while --luks-discard=
controls what happens when the home directory is active,
--luks-offline-discard= controls what happens when it becomes inactive, i.e.
whether to trim/allocate the storage when deactivating the home directory.
This option defaults to on, to ensure disk space is minimized while a user is
not logged in.

Added in version 246.  --luks-extra-mount-options=OPTIONS Takes a string
containing additional mount options to use when mounting the LUKS volume. If
specified, this string will be appended to the default, built-in mount
options. Defaults to "compress=zstd:1,noacl,user_subvol_rm_allowed".

Added in version 250.  --luks-cipher=CIPHER, --luks-cipher-mode=MODE,
--luks-volume-key-size=BYTES, --luks-pbkdf-type=TYPE,
--luks-pbkdf-hash-algorithm=ALGORITHM,
--luks-pbkdf-force-iterations=ITERATIONS, --luks-pbkdf-time-cost=SECONDS,
--luks-pbkdf-memory-cost=BYTES, --luks-pbkdf-parallel-threads=THREADS,
--luks-sector-size=BYTES Configures various cryptographic parameters for the
LUKS2 storage mechanism. See cryptsetup(8) for details on the specific
attributes.

Note that homectl uses bytes for key size, like /proc/crypto, but
cryptsetup(8) uses bits.

Added in version 245.  --auto-resize-mode= Configures whether to automatically
grow and/or shrink the backing file system on login and logout. Takes one of
the strings "off", "grow", "shrink-and-grow". Only applies to the LUKS2
backend currently, and if the btrfs file system is used inside it (since only
then online growing/shrinking of the file system is supported). Defaults to
"shrink-and-grow", if LUKS2/btrfs is used, otherwise is off. If set to "off"
no automatic shrinking/growing during login or logout is done. If set to
"grow" the home area is grown to the size configured via --disk-size= should
it currently be smaller. If it already matches the configured size or is
larger no operation is executed. If set to "shrink-and-grow" the home area is
also resized during logout to the minimal size the used disk space and file
system constraints permit. This mode thus ensures that while a home area is
activated it is sized to the configured size, but while deactivated it is
compacted taking up only the minimal space possible. Note that if the system
is powered off abnormally or if the user otherwise not logged out cleanly the
shrinking operation will not take place, and the user has to re-login/logout
again before it is executed again.

Added in version 250.  --rebalance-weight= Configures the weight parameter for
the free disk space rebalancing logic. Only applies to the LUKS2 backend
(since for the LUKS2 backend disk space is allocated from a per-user loopback
file system instead of immediately from a common pool like the other backends
do it). In regular intervals free disk space in the active home areas and
their backing storage is redistributed among them, taking the weight value
configured here into account. Expects an integer in the range 1...10000, or
the special string "off". If not specified, defaults to 100. The weight is
used to scale free space made available to the home areas: a home area with a
weight of 200 will get twice the free space as one with a weight of 100; a
home area with a weight of 50 will get half of that. The backing file system
will be assigned space for a weight of 20. If set to "off" no automatic free
space distribution is done for this home area. Note that resizing the home
area explicitly (with homectl resize see below) will implicitly turn off the
automatic rebalancing. To reenable the automatic rebalancing use
--rebalance-weight= with an empty parameter.

Added in version 250.  --nosuid=BOOL, --nodev=BOOL, --noexec=BOOL Configures
the "nosuid", "nodev" and "noexec" mount options for the home directories. By
default, "nodev" and "nosuid" are on, while "noexec" is off. For details about
these mount options see mount(8).

Added in version 245.  --cifs-domain=DOMAIN, --cifs-user-name=USER,
--cifs-service=SERVICE, --cifs-extra-mount-options=OPTIONS Configures the
Windows File Sharing (CIFS) domain and user to associate with the home
directory/user account, as well as the file share ("service") to mount as
directory. The latter is used when "cifs" storage is selected. The file share
should be specified in format "//host/share/directory/...". The directory part
is optional — if not specified, the home directory will be placed in the
top-level directory of the share. The --cifs-extra-mount-options= setting
allows specifying additional mount options when mounting the share, see
mount.cifs(8) for details.

Added in version 245.  --stop-delay=SECS Configures the time the per-user
service manager shall continue to run after the all sessions of the user
ended. The default is configured in logind.conf(5) (for home directories of
LUKS2 storage located on removable media this defaults to 0 though). A longer
time makes sure quick, repetitive logins are more efficient as the user's
service manager does not have to be started every time.

Added in version 245.  --kill-processes=BOOL Configures whether to kill all
processes of the user on logout. The default is configured in logind.conf(5).

Added in version 245.  --auto-login=BOOL Takes a boolean argument. Configures
whether the graphical UI of the system should automatically log this user in
if possible. Defaults to off. If less or more than one user is marked this way
automatic login is disabled.

Added in version 245.  --session-launcher=LAUNCHER Takes a string argument.
Configures the user's preferred session launcher .desktop entry file (i.e.
"gnome", "plasma", or other names that appear in /usr/share/xesssions/ or
/usr/share/wayland-sessions). This is read by the display manager to pick the
default session that is launched when the user logs in.

Added in version 256.  --session-type=TYPE Takes a string argument. Configures
the user's preferred session type (i.e.	 "x11", "wayland", and other values
accepted by $XDG_SESSION_TYPE). This is read by the display manage to pick the
default session type the user is logged into.

Added in version 256.  The following commands are understood: list List all
home directories (along with brief details) currently managed by
systemd-homed.service. This command is also executed if none is specified on
the command line. (Note that the list of users shown by this command does not
include users managed by other subsystems, such as system users or any
traditional users listed in /etc/passwd.)

Added in version 245.  activate USER [USER...] Activate one or more home
directories. The home directories of each listed user will be activated and
made available under their mount points (typically in /home/$USER). Note that
any home activated this way stays active indefinitely, until it is explicitly
deactivated again (with deactivate, see below), or the user logs in and out
again and it thus is deactivated due to the automatic deactivation-on-logout
logic.

Activation of a home directory involves various operations that depend on the
selected storage mechanism. If the LUKS2 mechanism is used, this generally
involves: inquiring the user for a password, setting up a loopback device,
validating and activating the LUKS2 volume, checking the file system, mounting
the file system, and potentially changing the ownership of all included files
to the correct UID/GID.

Added in version 245.  deactivate USER [USER...] Deactivate one or more home
directories. This undoes the effect of activate.

Added in version 245.  inspect USER [USER...] Show various details about the
specified home directories. This shows various information about the home
directory and its user account, including runtime data such as current state,
disk use and similar. Combine with --json= to show the detailed JSON user
record instead, possibly combined with --export-format= to suppress certain
aspects of the output.

Added in version 245.  authenticate USER [USER...] Validate authentication
credentials of a home directory. This queries the caller for a password (or
similar) and checks that it correctly unlocks the home directory. This leaves
the home directory in the state it is in, i.e. it leaves the home directory in
inactive state if it was inactive before, and in active state if it was active
before.

Added in version 245.  create USER, create --identity=PATH [USER] Create a new
home directory/user account of the specified name. Use the various user record
property options (as documented above) to control various aspects of the home
directory and its user accounts.

The specified user name should follow the strict syntax described on
User/Group Name Syntax[4].

Added in version 245.  adopt PATH [PATH...] Adopts one or more existing home
directories on the local system. Takes one or more paths to *.home LUKS home
directories or *.homedir/ standalone home directories or subvolumes previously
created by systemd-homed and makes them available locally for login. The
referenced files are not moved. This is an alternative for moving such home
directories into /home/ (where they would be picked up automatically).

Added in version 258.  register FILE [FILE...] Registers one or more users,
without creating their home directories. Takes one or more paths to JSON user
record files. If the path is specified as "-" reads the JSON user record from
standard input.

Registering a user makes it accessible on the local system without creating a
new home directory. This is particularly useful for making a user accessible
on a system it was not originally created on.

Here's an example how to make a local user account with its home directory
accessible on a remote system, using SMB/CIFS file sharing. With Samba
installed in its default configuration invoke as "root":

# smbpasswd -a lennart

Continue as regular user "lennart":

$ homectl update lennart --ssh-authorized-keys=... -N --storage=cifs --cifs-service="//$HOSTNAME/lennart"
$ homectl get-signing-key | ssh targetsystem homectl add-signing-key --key-name="$HOSTNAME".public
$ homectl inspect -E lennart | ssh targetsystem homectl register -
$ ssh lennart@targetsystem

This first ensures the user account "lennart" is known to and accessible by
Samba. It then registers a local SSH access that shall be used for accessing
this user, and configures CIFS as default storage for non-local systems on the
account. It then adds the local system's account signing key to the target
system. Then it registers the local user account with the target system.
Finally it logs into the account on the target system. The target system will
then connect back via SMB/CIFS to access the home directory.

Added in version 258.  unregister USER...  Unregisters one or more user
accounts. This only removes the user record from the local system, it does not
delete the home directory. The home directory can be readded via the register
or adopt command later, on this or another system. Note that unregistering a
user whose home directory is placed in /home/ will not make the user disappear
from the local user database, as all supported home directories placed there
will show up in the user database. However, the user record will become
"unfixated", i.e. lose its binding to the local system. When logged into it
will automatically regain the binding, and acquire a local UID/GID pair.

Added in version 258.  remove USER Remove a home directory/user account. This
will remove both the home directory's user record and the home directory
itself, and thus delete all files and directories owned by the user.

Added in version 245.  update USER, update --identity=PATH [USER] Update a
home directory/user account. Use the various user record property options (as
documented above) to make changes to the account, or alternatively provide a
full, updated JSON user record via the --identity= option.

Note that changes to user records not signed by a cryptographic private key
available locally are not permitted, unless --identity= is used with a user
record that is already correctly signed by a recognized private key.

Added in version 245.  passwd USER Change the password of the specified home
directory/user account.

Added in version 245.  resize USER BYTES Change the disk space assigned to the
specified home directory. If the LUKS2 storage mechanism is used this will
automatically resize the loopback file and the file system contained within.
Note that if "ext4" is used inside of the LUKS2 volume, it is necessary to
deactivate the home directory before shrinking it (i.e the user has to log
out). Growing can be done while the home directory is active. If "xfs" is used
inside of the LUKS2 volume the home directory may not be shrunk whatsoever. On
all three of "ext4", "xfs" and "btrfs" the home directory may be grown while
the user is logged in, and on the latter also shrunk while the user is logged
in. If the "subvolume", "directory", "fscrypt" storage mechanisms are used,
resizing will change file system quota. The size parameter may make use of the
usual suffixes B, K, M, G, T (to the base of 1024). The special strings "min"
and "max" may be specified in place of a numeric size value, for minimizing or
maximizing disk space assigned to the home area, taking constraints of the
file system, disk usage inside the home area and on the backing storage into
account.

Added in version 245.  lock USER Temporarily suspend access to the user's home
directory and remove any associated cryptographic keys from memory. Any
attempts to access the user's home directory will stall until the home
directory is unlocked again (i.e. re-authenticated). This functionality is
primarily intended to be used during system suspend to make sure the user's
data cannot be accessed until the user re-authenticates on resume. This
operation is only defined for home directories that use the LUKS2 storage
mechanism.

Added in version 245.  unlock USER Resume access to the user's home directory
again, undoing the effect of lock above. This requires authentication of the
user, as the cryptographic keys required for access to the home directory need
to be reacquired.

Added in version 245.  lock-all Execute the lock command on all suitable home
directories at once. This operation is generally executed on system suspend
(i.e. by systemctl suspend and related commands), to ensure all active user's
cryptographic keys for accessing their home directories are removed from
memory.

Added in version 245.  deactivate-all Execute the deactivate command on all
active home directories at once. This operation is generally executed on
system shut down (i.e. by systemctl poweroff and related commands), to ensure
all active user's home directories are fully deactivated before /home/ and
related file systems are unmounted.

Added in version 247.  with USER COMMAND... Activate the specified user's home
directory, run the specified command (under the caller's identity, not the
specified user's) and deactivate the home directory afterwards again (unless
the user is logged in otherwise). This command is useful for running
privileged backup scripts and such, but requires authentication with the
user's credentials in order to be able to unlock the user's home directory.

Added in version 245.  rebalance Rebalance free disk space between active home
areas and the backing storage. See --rebalance-weight= above. This executes no
operation unless there's at least one active LUKS2 home area that has disk
space rebalancing enabled. This operation is synchronous: it will only
complete once disk space is rebalanced according to the rebalancing weights.
Note that rebalancing also takes place automatically in the background in
regular intervals. Use this command to synchronously ensure disk space is
properly redistributed before initiating an operation requiring large amounts
of disk space.

Added in version 250.  firstboot This command is supposed to be invoked during
the initial boot of the system. It checks whether any regular home area exists
so far, and if not queries the user interactively on the console for user name
and password and creates one (only if --prompt-new-user is specified).
Alternatively, if one or more service credentials whose name starts with
"home.create." are passed to the command (containing a user record in JSON
format) these users are automatically created at boot.

This command is invoked by the systemd-homed-firstboot.service service unit.

Added in version 256.  list-signing-keys Show a list of public keys that home
directories can be signed with to be allowed for local login. One such key
(local.public) will be generated automatically for signing locally created
home directories, but additional public keys may be registered to accept home
directories from other origins too (see add-signing-key below).

Added in version 258.  get-signing-key [NAME...] Write the public key
identified by the specified name to standard output (in PEM format). If no
name is specified defaults to local.public, i.e. the automatically generated
key for locally created home directories.

Added in version 258.  add-signing-key [FILE...] Add public key(s) from the
specified PEM key file(s) to the list of keys that home areas have to be
signed by to be permitted for local login. If a path of "-" is specified, or
if no file is specified at all, the key will be read from standard input. The
key file name(s) must carry the .public suffix, and the file name(s) will be
used to name the key(s) once added, too. If a key is added from standard input
the key name must be specified explicitly via --key-name=, see above.

This command is useful for permitting local home directories to be used on a
remote system. Example:

homectl get-signing-key | ssh myotherhost homectl add-signing-key --key-name="$HOSTNAME".public

Added in version 258.  remove-signing-key NAME... Remove the public key
identified by the specified name from the list of keys that control from which
origins to permit home directories for login.

Added in version 258.  When invoked with the firstboot command, homectl
supports the service credentials logic as implemented by
ImportCredential=/LoadCredential=/SetCredential= (see systemd.exec(5) for
details). The following credentials are used when passed in: home.create.* If
one or more credentials whose names begin with "home.create.", followed by a
valid UNIX username are passed, a new home area is created, one for each
specified user record.

Added in version 256.  systemd.firstboot= This boolean will disable the effect
of homectl firstboot command. It's primarily interpreted by systemd-
firstboot(1).

Added in version 256.  On success, 0 is returned, a non-zero failure code
otherwise.  When a command is invoked with with, the exit status of the child
is propagated. Effectively, homectl will exit without error if the command is
successfully invoked and finishes successfully.	 $SYSTEMD_LOG_LEVEL The
maximum log level of emitted messages (messages with a higher log level, i.e.
less important ones, will be suppressed). Takes a comma-separated list of
values. A value may be either one of (in order of decreasing importance)
emerg, alert, crit, err, warning, notice, info, debug, or an integer in the
range 0...7. See syslog(3) for more information. Each value may optionally be
prefixed with one of console, syslog, kmsg or journal followed by a colon to
set the maximum log level for that specific log target (e.g.
SYSTEMD_LOG_LEVEL=debug,console:info specifies to log at debug level except
when logging to the console which should be at info level). Note that the
global maximum log level takes priority over any per target maximum log
levels.	 $SYSTEMD_LOG_COLOR A boolean. If true, messages written to the tty
will be colored according to priority.

This setting is only useful when messages are written directly to the
terminal, because journalctl(1) and other tools that display logs will color
messages based on the log level on their own.  $SYSTEMD_LOG_TIME A boolean. If
true, console log messages will be prefixed with a timestamp.

This setting is only useful when messages are written directly to the terminal
or a file, because journalctl(1) and other tools that display logs will attach
timestamps based on the entry metadata on their own.  $SYSTEMD_LOG_LOCATION A
boolean. If true, messages will be prefixed with a filename and line number in
the source code where the message originates.

Note that the log location is often attached as metadata to journal entries
anyway. Including it directly in the message text can nevertheless be
convenient when debugging programs.  $SYSTEMD_LOG_TID A boolean. If true,
messages will be prefixed with the current numerical thread ID (TID).

Note that the this information is attached as metadata to journal entries
anyway. Including it directly in the message text can nevertheless be
convenient when debugging programs.  $SYSTEMD_LOG_TARGET The destination for
log messages. One of console (log to the attached tty), console-prefixed (log
to the attached tty but with prefixes encoding the log level and "facility",
see syslog(3), kmsg (log to the kernel circular log buffer), journal (log to
the journal), journal-or-kmsg (log to the journal if available, and to kmsg
otherwise), auto (determine the appropriate log target automatically, the
default), null (disable log output).  $SYSTEMD_LOG_RATELIMIT_KMSG Whether to
ratelimit kmsg or not. Takes a boolean. Defaults to "true". If disabled,
systemd will not ratelimit messages written to kmsg.  $SYSTEMD_PAGER, $PAGER
Pager to use when --no-pager is not given.  $SYSTEMD_PAGER is used if set;
otherwise $PAGER is used. If neither $SYSTEMD_PAGER nor $PAGER are set, a set
of well-known pager implementations is tried in turn, including less(1) and
more(1), until one is found. If no pager implementation is discovered, no
pager is invoked. Setting those environment variables to an empty string or
the value "cat" is equivalent to passing --no-pager.

Note: if $SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE is not set, $SYSTEMD_PAGER and $PAGER can only
be used to disable the pager (with "cat" or ""), and are otherwise ignored.
$SYSTEMD_LESS Override the options passed to less (by default "FRSXMK").

Users might want to change two options in particular: K This option instructs
the pager to exit immediately when Ctrl+C is pressed. To allow less to handle
Ctrl+C itself to switch back to the pager command prompt, unset this option.

If the value of $SYSTEMD_LESS does not include "K", and the pager that is
invoked is less, Ctrl+C will be ignored by the executable, and needs to be
handled by the pager.  X This option instructs the pager to not send termcap
initialization and deinitialization strings to the terminal. It is set by
default to allow command output to remain visible in the terminal even after
the pager exits. Nevertheless, this prevents some pager functionality from
working, in particular paged output cannot be scrolled with the mouse.

Note that setting the regular $LESS environment variable has no effect for
less invocations by systemd tools.

See less(1) for more discussion.  $SYSTEMD_LESSCHARSET Override the charset
passed to less (by default "utf-8", if the invoking terminal is determined to
be UTF-8 compatible).

Note that setting the regular $LESSCHARSET environment variable has no effect
for less invocations by systemd tools.	$SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE Common pager
commands like less(1), in addition to "paging", i.e. scrolling through the
output, support opening of or writing to other files and running arbitrary
shell commands. When commands are invoked with elevated privileges, for
example under sudo(8) or pkexec(1), the pager becomes a security boundary.
Care must be taken that only programs with strictly limited functionality are
used as pagers, and unintended interactive features like opening or creation
of new files or starting of subprocesses are not allowed. "Secure mode" for
the pager may be enabled as described below, if the pager supports that (most
pagers are not written in a way that takes this into consideration). It is
recommended to either explicitly enable "secure mode" or to completely disable
the pager using --no-pager or PAGER=cat when allowing untrusted users to
execute commands with elevated privileges.

This option takes a boolean argument. When set to true, the "secure mode" of
the pager is enabled. In "secure mode", LESSSECURE=1 will be set when invoking
the pager, which instructs the pager to disable commands that open or create
new files or start new subprocesses. Currently only less(1) is known to
understand this variable and implement "secure mode".

When set to false, no limitation is placed on the pager. Setting
SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE=0 or not removing it from the inherited environment may
allow the user to invoke arbitrary commands.

When $SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE is not set, systemd tools attempt to automatically
figure out if "secure mode" should be enabled and whether the pager supports
it. "Secure mode" is enabled if the effective UID is not the same as the owner
of the login session, see geteuid(2) and sd_pid_get_owner_uid(3), or when
running under sudo(8) or similar tools ($SUDO_UID is set [5]). In those cases,
SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE=1 will be set and pagers which are not known to implement
"secure mode" will not be used at all. Note that this autodetection only
covers the most common mechanisms to elevate privileges and is intended as
convenience. It is recommended to explicitly set $SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE or
disable the pager.

Note that if the $SYSTEMD_PAGER or $PAGER variables are to be honoured, other
than to disable the pager, $SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE must be set too.
$SYSTEMD_COLORS Takes a boolean argument. When true, systemd and related
utilities will use colors in their output, otherwise the output will be
monochrome. Additionally, the variable can take one of the following special
values: "16", "256" to restrict the use of colors to the base 16 or 256 ANSI
colors, respectively. This can be specified to override the automatic decision
based on $TERM and what the console is connected to.  $SYSTEMD_URLIFY The
value must be a boolean. Controls whether clickable links should be generated
in the output for terminal emulators supporting this. This can be specified to
override the decision that systemd makes based on $TERM and other conditions.
Example 1. Create a user "waldo" in the administrator group "wheel", and
assign 500 MiB disk space to them.

homectl create waldo --real-name="Waldo McWaldo" -G wheel --disk-size=500M
Example 2. Create a user "wally" on a USB stick, and assign a maximum of 500
concurrent tasks to them.

homectl create wally --real-name="Wally McWally" --image-path=/dev/disk/by-id/usb-SanDisk_Ultra_Fit_476fff954b2b5c44-0:0 --tasks-max=500
Example 3. Change nice level of user "odlaw" to +5 and make sure the
environment variable $SOME is set to the string "THING" for them on login.

homectl update odlaw --nice=5 --setenv=SOME=THING
Example 4. Set up authentication with a YubiKey security token using
PKCS#11/PIV:

# Clear the Yubikey from any old keys (careful!)
ykman piv reset

# Generate a new private/public key pair on the device, store the public key in 'pubkey.pem'.
ykman piv generate-key -a RSA2048 9d pubkey.pem

# Create a self-signed certificate from this public key, and store it on the device.
ykman piv generate-certificate --subject "Knobelei" 9d pubkey.pem

# We do not need the public key on disk anymore
rm pubkey.pem

# Allow the security token to unlock the account of user 'lafcadio'.
homectl update lafcadio --pkcs11-token-uri=auto
Example 5. Set up authentication with a FIDO2 security token:

# Allow a FIDO2 security token to unlock the account of user 'nihilbaxter'.
homectl update nihilbaxter --fido2-device=auto
systemd(1), systemd-homed.service(8), homed.conf(5), userdbctl(1), useradd(8),
cryptsetup(8) JSON User Records https://systemd.io/USER_RECORD Icon Naming
Specification https://standards.freedesktop.org/icon-naming-spec/icon-naming-
spec-latest.html User Record Blob Directories
https://systemd.io/USER_RECORD_BLOB_DIRS User/Group Name Syntax
https://systemd.io/USER_NAMES It is recommended for other tools to set and
check $SUDO_UID as appropriate, treating it is a common interface.



