iconv - convert text from one character encoding to another The program reads
in text in one encoding and outputs the text in another encoding.  If no input
files are given, or if it is given as a dash (-), reads from standard input.
If no output file is given, writes to standard output.	If no is given, the
default is derived from the current locale's character encoding.  If no is
given, the default is derived from the current locale's character encoding.
Use for input characters.  Use for output characters.  If the string is
appended to characters that cannot be converted are discarded and an error is
printed after conversion.  If the string is appended to characters being
converted are transliterated when needed and possible.	This means that when a
character cannot be represented in the target character set, it can be
approximated through one or several similar looking characters.	 Characters
that are outside of the target character set and cannot be transliterated are
replaced with a question mark (?) in the output.  List all known character set
encodings.  Silently discard characters that cannot be converted instead of
terminating when encountering such characters.	Use for output.	 This option
is ignored; it is provided only for compatibility.  Print progress information
on standard error when processing multiple files.  Print a usage summary and
exit.  Print a short usage summary and exit.  Print the version number,
license, and disclaimer of warranty for Zero on success, nonzero on errors.
Internally, the program uses the function which in turn uses modules
(dynamically loaded shared libraries) to convert to and from a character set.
Before calling the program must first allocate a conversion descriptor using
The operation of the latter function is influenced by the setting of the
environment variable: If is not set, loads the system gconv module
configuration cache file created by and then, based on the configuration,
loads the gconv modules needed to perform the conversion.  If the system gconv
module configuration cache file is not available then the system gconv module
configuration file is used.  If is defined (as a colon-separated list of
pathnames), the system gconv module configuration cache is not used.  Instead,
first tries to load the configuration files by searching the directories in in
order, followed by the system default gconv module configuration file.	If a
directory does not contain a gconv module configuration file, any gconv
modules that it may contain are ignored.  If a directory contains a gconv
module configuration file and it is determined that a module needed for this
conversion is available in the directory, then the needed module is loaded
from that directory, the order being such that the first suitable module found
in is used.  This allows users to use custom modules and even replace system-
provided modules by providing such modules in directories.  Usual default
gconv module path.  Usual system default gconv module configuration file.
Usual system gconv module configuration cache.	Depending on the architecture,
the above files may instead be located at directories with the path prefix
POSIX.1-2008.  POSIX.1-2001.  Convert text from the ISO/IEC 8859-15 character
encoding to UTF-8: $ iconv -f ISO-8859-15 -t UTF-8 < input.txt > output.txt
The next example converts from UTF-8 to ASCII, transliterating when possible:
$ echo abc ß α € àḃç | iconv -f UTF-8 -t ASCII//TRANSLIT abc ss ? EUR abc


