infocmp - compare or print out terminfo descriptions ... ] reports a human-
readable terminal type description from a compiled entry in the database in a
variety of selectable formats, compares such entries to each other, and
rewrites an entry to replace expressions with the content of other entries by
reference.  A comprises a list of one or more terminal type identifiers, a
human-readable description of the terminal type, and a list of terminal that
characterize its programming interface.	 In all cases, the program reports
Boolean-valued capabilities first, followed by numeric ones, and then string-
valued capabilities.  If no options are specified and zero or one is
specified, assumes the option.	If more than one is specified, the program
assumes the option.  The -I, -L, and -C options will produce a source listing
for each terminal named.
		-I   use terminfo capability codes
		-L   use “long” capability names
		-C   use termcap capability codes
		-r   with -C, include nonstandard capabilities
		-K   with -C, improve BSD compatibility
If no terminal-types are given, the environment variable TERM will be used for
the terminal name.  The source produced by the -C option may be used directly
as a termcap entry, but not all parameterized strings can be changed to the
termcap format.	 infocmp will attempt to convert most of the parameterized
information, and anything not converted will be plainly marked in the output
and commented out.  These should be edited by hand.  For best results when
converting to termcap format, you should use both -C and -r.  Normally a
termcap description is limited to 1023 bytes.  infocmp trims away less
essential parts to make it fit.	 If you are converting to one of the (rare)
termcap implementations which accept an unlimited size of termcap, you may
want to add the -T option.  More often however, you must help the termcap
implementation, and trim excess whitespace (use the -0 option for that).  All
padding information for strings will be collected together and placed at the
beginning of the string where termcap expects it.  Mandatory padding (padding
information with a trailing “/”) will become optional.	All termcap variables
no longer supported by terminfo, but which are derivable from other terminfo
variables, will be output.  Not all terminfo capabilities will be translated;
only those variables which were part of termcap will normally be output.
Specifying the -r option will take off this restriction, allowing all
capabilities to be output in termcap form.  Normally you would use both the -C
and -r options.	 The actual format used incorporates some improvements for
escaped characters from terminfo format.  For a stricter BSD-compatible
translation, use the -K option rather than -C.	Note that because padding is
collected to the beginning of the capability, not all capabilities are output.
Mandatory padding is not supported.  Because termcap strings are not as
flexible, it is not always possible to convert a terminfo string capability
into an equivalent termcap format.  A subsequent conversion of the termcap
file back into terminfo format will not necessarily reproduce the original
terminfo source.  Some common terminfo parameter sequences, their termcap
equivalents, and some terminal types which commonly have such sequences, are:
	     terminfo			termcap	  Terminal Types
	     ────────────────────────────────────────────────────
	     %p1%c			%.	  ansi-m
	     %p1%d			%d	  ansi, vt100
	     %p1%' '%+%c		%+x	  vt52
	     %i				%iq	  ansi, vt100
	     %p1%?%'x'%>%t%p1%'y'%+%;	%>xy	  annarbor4080
	     %p2...%p1			%r	  hpgeneric
Given or compares the description of the first specified with those of each of
the subsequent operands.  If fewer than required are specified, uses the
environment variable in their place.  If a capability is defined for only one
terminal type, the value reported depends on the capability's type: for
missing Boolean variables for missing integer or string variables The and
options report string capability values between “'” characters.	 Use the
option to distinguish and capabilities; see terminfo(5).  The comparison
option selects the form of report.  lists each capability that between two
entries.  Each capability name is followed by “:” and comma-separated
capability values, then a period.  lists each capability that two entries have
in ignores capabilities missing from either entry.  Each capability name is
followed by “=”, a space, and the capability value, then a period.  If the
option is further specified, rewrites the description of the first type
employing “use=” syntax to use the second as a building block.	lists
capabilities that are in of the given entries.	Each capability name is
preceded by “!” and followed by a period.  Normally only conventional
capabilities are shown.	 Use the option to add BSD-compatibility capabilities
(names prefixed with “OT”).  The -u option produces a terminfo source
description of the first terminal terminal-type which is relative to the sum
of the descriptions given by the entries for the other terminal-types.	It
does this by analyzing the differences between the first terminal-types and
the other terminal-types and producing a description with use= fields for the
other terminals.  In this manner, it is possible to retrofit generic terminfo
entries into a terminal's description.	Or, if two similar terminals exist,
but were coded at different times or by different people so that each
description is a full description, using infocmp will show what can be done to
change one description to be relative to the other.  A capability will be
printed with an at-sign (@) if it no longer exists in the first terminal-type,
but one of the other terminal-type entries contains a value for it.  A
capability's value will be printed if the value in the first terminal-type is
not found in any of the other terminal-type entries, or if the first of the
other terminal-type entries that has this capability gives a different value
for the capability than that in the first terminal-type.  The order of the
other terminal-type entries is significant.  Since the terminfo compiler tic
does a left-to-right scan of the capabilities, specifying two use= entries
that contain differing entries for the same capabilities will produce
different results depending on the order that the entries are given in.
infocmp will flag any such inconsistencies between the other terminal-type
entries as they are found.  Alternatively, specifying a capability after a
use= entry that contains that capability will cause the second specification
to be ignored.	Using infocmp to recreate a description can be a useful check
to make sure that everything was specified correctly in the original source
description.  Another error that does not cause incorrect compiled files, but
will slow down the compilation time, is specifying extra use= fields that are
superfluous.  infocmp will flag any other terminal-type use= fields that were
not needed.  Like other ncurses utilities, infocmp looks for the terminal
descriptions in several places.	 You can use the TERMINFO and TERMINFO_DIRS
environment variables to override the compiled-in default list of places to
search.	 See curses(3X), as well as the Fetching Compiled Descriptions section
in terminfo(5).	 You can also use the options -A and -B to override the list
of places to search when comparing terminal descriptions: The -A option sets
the location for the first terminal-type The -B option sets the location for
the other terminal-types.  Using these options, it is possible to compare
descriptions for a terminal with the same name located in two different
databases.  For instance, you can use this feature for comparing descriptions
for the same terminal created by different people.  -0 causes the fields to be
printed on one line, without wrapping.	-1 causes the fields to be printed out
one to a line.	Otherwise, the fields will be printed several to a line to a
maximum width of 60 characters.	 -a tells infocmp to retain commented-out
capabilities rather than discarding them.  Capabilities are commented by
prefixing them with a period.  -D tells infocmp to print the database
locations that it knows about, and exit.  -E Dump the capabilities of the
given terminal as tables, needed in the C initializer for a TERMTYPE structure
(the terminal capability structure in the <term.h>).  This option is useful
for preparing versions of the curses library hardwired for a given terminal
type.  The tables are all declared static, and are named according to the type
and the name of the corresponding terminal entry.

Before ncurses 5.0, the split between the -e and -E options was not needed;
but support for extended names required making the arrays of terminal
capabilities separate from the TERMTYPE structure.  -e Dump the capabilities
of the given terminal as a C initializer for a TERMTYPE structure (the
terminal capability structure in the <term.h>).	 This option is useful for
preparing versions of the curses library hardwired for a given terminal type.
-F compare terminfo files.  This assumes that two following arguments are
filenames.  The files are searched for pairwise matches between entries, with
two entries considered to match if any of their names do.  The report printed
to standard output lists entries with no matches in the other file, and
entries with more than one match.  For entries with exactly one match it
includes a difference report.  Normally, to reduce the volume of the report,
use references are not resolved before looking for differences, but resolution
can be forced by also specifying -r.  -f Display complex terminfo strings
which contain if/then/else/endif expressions indented for readability.	-G
Display constant literals in decimal form rather than their character
equivalents.  -g Display constant character literals in quoted form rather
than their decimal equivalents.	 -i Analyze the initialization (is1, is2,
is3), and reset (rs1, rs2, rs3), strings in the entry, as well as those used
for starting/stopping cursor-positioning mode (smcup, rmcup) as well as
starting/stopping keymap mode (smkx, rmkx).  For each string, the code tries
to analyze it into actions in terms of the other capabilities in the entry,
certain X3.64/ISO 6429/ECMA-48 capabilities, and certain DEC VT-series private
modes (the set of recognized special sequences has been selected for
completeness over the existing terminfo database).  Each report line consists
of the capability name, followed by a colon and space, followed by a printable
expansion of the capability string with sections matching recognized actions
translated into {}-bracketed descriptions.  Here is a list of the DEC/ANSI
special sequences recognized:
		   Action	 Meaning
		   ─────────────────────────────────────────
		   RIS		 full reset
		   SC		 save cursor
		   RC		 restore cursor
		   LL		 home-down
		   RSR		 reset scroll region
		   ─────────────────────────────────────────
		   DECSTR	 soft reset (VT320)
		   S7C1T	 7-bit controls (VT220)
		   ─────────────────────────────────────────
		   ISO DEC G0	 enable DEC graphics for G0
		   ISO UK G0	 enable UK chars for G0
		   ISO US G0	 enable US chars for G0
		   ISO DEC G1	 enable DEC graphics for G1
		   ISO UK G1	 enable UK chars for G1
		   ISO US G1	 enable US chars for G1
		   ─────────────────────────────────────────
		   DECPAM	 application keypad mode
		   DECPNM	 normal keypad mode
		   DECANSI	 enter ANSI mode
		   ─────────────────────────────────────────
		   ECMA[+-]AM	 keyboard action mode
		   ECMA[+-]IRM	 insert replace mode
		   ECMA[+-]SRM	 send receive mode
		   ECMA[+-]LNM	 linefeed mode
		   ─────────────────────────────────────────
		   DEC[+-]CKM	 application cursor keys
		   DEC[+-]ANM	 set VT52 mode
		   DEC[+-]COLM	 132-column mode
		   DEC[+-]SCLM	 smooth scroll
		   DEC[+-]SCNM	 reverse video mode
		   DEC[+-]OM	 origin mode
		   DEC[+-]AWM	 wraparound mode
		   DEC[+-]ARM	 auto-repeat mode

It also recognizes a SGR action corresponding to ANSI/ISO 6429/ECMA Set
Graphics Rendition, with the values NORMAL, BOLD, UNDERLINE, BLINK, and
REVERSE.  All but NORMAL may be prefixed with “+” (turn on) or “-” (turn off).
An SGR0 designates an empty highlight sequence (equivalent to {SGR:NORMAL}).
-l Set output format to terminfo.  -p Ignore padding specifications when
comparing strings.  -Q n Rather than show source in terminfo (text) format,
print the compiled (binary) format in hexadecimal or base64 form, depending on
the option's value: 1 hexadecimal 2 base64 3 hexadecimal and base64 For
example, this prints the compiled terminfo value as a string which could be
assigned to the TERMINFO environment variable: infocmp -0 -q -Q2 -q This makes
the output a little shorter: Make the comparison listing shorter by omitting
subheadings, and using “-” for absent capabilities, “@” for canceled rather
than “NULL”.  However, show differences between absent and canceled
capabilities.  Omit the “Reconstructed from” comment for source listings.
-Rsubset Restrict output to a given subset.  This option is for use with
archaic versions of terminfo like those on SVr1, Ultrix, or HP-UX that do not
support the full set of SVR4/XSI Curses terminfo; and variants such as AIX
that have their own extensions incompatible with SVr4/XSI.  Available terminfo
subsets are “SVr1”, “Ultrix”, “HP”, and “AIX”; see terminfo(5) for details.
You can also choose the subset “BSD” which selects only capabilities with
termcap equivalents recognized by 4.4BSD.  If you select any other value for
-R, it is the same as no subset, i.e., all capabilities are used.  A few
options override the subset selected with -R, if they are processed later in
the command parameters: -C sets the “BSD” subset as a side-effect.  -I sets
the subset to all capabilities.	 -r sets the subset to all capabilities.  -s
[d|i|l|c] The -s option sorts the fields within each type according to the
argument below:
d leave fields in the order that they are stored in the terminfo database.  i
sort by terminfo name.	l sort by the long C variable name.  c sort by the
termcap name.  If the -s option is not given, the fields printed out will be
sorted alphabetically by the terminfo name within each type, except in the
case of the -C or the -L options, which cause the sorting to be done by the
termcap name or the long C variable name, respectively.	 -T eliminates size-
restrictions on the generated text.  This is mainly useful for testing and
analysis, since the compiled descriptions are limited (e.g., 1023 for termcap,
4096 for terminfo).  -t tells tic to discard commented-out capabilities.
Normally when translating from terminfo to termcap, untranslatable
capabilities are commented-out.	 -U tells infocmp to not post-process the data
after parsing the source file.	This feature helps when comparing the actual
contents of two source files, since it excludes the inferences that infocmp
makes to fill in missing data.	-V reports the version of ncurses which was
used in this program, and exits.  -v n prints out tracing information on
standard error as the program runs.  The optional parameter n is a number from
1 to 10, inclusive, indicating the desired level of detail of information.  If
ncurses is built without tracing support, the optional parameter is ignored.
-W By itself, the -w option will not force long strings to be wrapped.	Use
the -W option to do this.  -w width changes the output to width characters.
-x print information for user-defined capabilities (see user_caps(5).  These
are extensions to the terminfo repertoire which can be loaded using the -x
option of tic.	compiled terminal description database The and options are
extensions.  X/Open Curses Issue 7 (2009) specifies It does not mention
options for producing descriptions in format.  SVr4 does not distinguish
between absent and canceled capabilities.  It furthermore reports missing
integer capabilities as (its internal representation).	shows these as “NULL”
for consistency with missing string capabilities.  The option of uses SVr4's
notion of “termcap” capabilities.  BSD had a more restricted set.  To see only
those present in 4.4BSD, use Although System V Release 2 provided a terminfo
library, it had no documented tool for decompiling the terminal descriptions.
Tony Hansen (AT&T) wrote the first infocmp in early 1984, for System V Release
3.  Eric Raymond used the AT&T documentation in 1995 to provide an equivalent
infocmp for ncurses.  In addition, he added a few new features such as: the -e
option, to support fallback (compiled-in) terminal descriptions the -i option,
to help with analysis Later, Thomas Dickey added the -x (user-defined
capabilities) option, and the -E option to support fallback entries with user-
defined capabilities.  For a complete list, see the EXTENSIONS section.	 In
2010, Roy Marples provided an infocmp program for NetBSD.  It is less capable
than the SVr4 or ncurses versions (e.g., it lacks the sorting options
documented in X/Open), but does include the -x option adapted from ncurses.
The -F option of infocmp(1M) should be a toe(1M) mode.	Eric S. Raymond
<esr@snark.thyrsus.com> and
Thomas E. Dickey <dickey@invisible-island.net> captoinfo(1M), infotocap(1M),
tic(1M), toe(1M), curses(3X), terminfo(5), user_caps(5)
https://invisible-island.net/ncurses/tctest.html


