ipcs - show information on IPC facilities

ipcs [options]

ipcs shows information on System V inter-process communication facilities. By
default it shows information about all three resources: shared memory
segments, message queues, and semaphore arrays.

-i, --id id Show full details on just the one resource element identified by
id. This option needs to be combined with one of the three resource options:
-m, -q or -s.

-h, --help Display help text and exit.

-V, --version Display version and exit.

-m, --shmems Write information about active shared memory segments.

-q, --queues Write information about active message queues.

-s, --semaphores Write information about active semaphore sets.

-a, --all Write information about all three resources (default).

Of these options only one takes effect: the last one specified.

-c, --creator Show creator and owner.

-l, --limits Show resource limits.

-p, --pid Show PIDs of creator and last operator.

-t, --time Write time information. The time of the last control operation that
changed the access permissions for all facilities, the time of the last
msgsnd(2) and msgrcv(2) operations on message queues, the time of the last
shmat(2) and shmdt(2) operations on shared memory, and the time of the last
semop(2) operation on semaphores.

-u, --summary Show status summary.

These affect only the -l (--limits) option.

-b, --bytes Print the sizes in bytes rather than in a human-readable format.

By default, the unit, sizes are expressed in, is byte, and unit prefixes are
in power of 2^10 (1024). Abbreviations of symbols are exhibited truncated in
order to reach a better readability, by exhibiting alone the first letter of
them; examples: "1 KiB" and "1 MiB" are respectively exhibited as "1 K" and "1
M", then omitting on purpose the mention "iB", which is part of these
abbreviations.

--human Print sizes in human-readable format.

The Linux ipcs utility is not fully compatible to the POSIX ipcs utility. The
Linux version does not support the POSIX -a, -b and -o options, but does
support the -l and -u options not defined by POSIX. A portable application
shall not use the -a, -b, -o, -l, and -u options.

The current implementation of ipcs obtains information about available IPC
resources by parsing the files in /proc/sysvipc. Before util-linux version
v2.23, an alternate mechanism was used: the IPC_STAT command of msgctl(2),
semctl(2), and shmctl(2). This mechanism is also used in later util-linux
versions in the case where /proc is unavailable. A limitation of the IPC_STAT
mechanism is that it can only be used to retrieve information about IPC
resources for which the user has read permission.

Krishna Balasubramanian <balasub@cis.ohio-state.edu>

ipcmk(1), ipcrm(1), msgrcv(2), msgsnd(2), semget(2), semop(2), shmat(2),
shmdt(2), shmget(2), sysvipc(7)

For bug reports, use the issue tracker
<https://github.com/util-linux/util-linux/issues>.

The ipcs command is part of the util-linux package which can be downloaded
from Linux Kernel Archive
<https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/>.


