killall - kill processes by name
sends a signal to all processes running any of the specified commands.	If no
signal name is specified, SIGTERM is sent.  Signals can be specified either by
name (e.g. or or by number (e.g. or by option If the command name is not
regular expression (option and contains a slash processes executing that
particular file will be selected for killing, independent of their name.
returns a zero return code if at least one process has been killed for each
listed command, or no commands were listed and at least one process matched
the -u and -Z search criteria.	returns non-zero otherwise.  A process never
kills itself (but may kill other processes).  Require an exact match for very
long names.  If a command name is longer than 15 characters, the full name may
be unavailable (i.e.  it is swapped out).  In this case, will kill everything
that matches within the first 15 characters.  With such entries are skipped.
prints a message for each skipped entry if is specified in addition to Do case
insensitive process name match.	 Kill the process group to which the process
belongs.  The kill signal is only sent once per group, even if multiple
processes belonging to the same process group were found.  Interactively ask
for confirmation before killing.  List all known signal names.	Match against
the PID namespace of the given PID. The default is to match against all
namespaces.  Match only processes that are older (started before) the time
specified.  The time is specified as a float then a unit.  The units are
s,m,h,d,w,M,y for seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks, months and years
respectively.  Do not complain if no processes were killed.  Interpret process
name pattern as a POSIX extended regular expression, per Send this signal
instead of SIGTERM.  Kill only processes the specified user owns.  Command
names are optional.  Report if the signal was successfully sent.  Display
version information.  Wait for all killed processes to die.  checks once per
second if any of the killed processes still exist and only returns if none are
left.  Note that may wait forever if the signal was ignored, had no effect, or
if the process stays in zombie state.  Match only processes that are younger
(started after) the time specified.  The time is specified as a float then a
unit.  The units are s,m,h,d,w,M,y for seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks,
Months and years respectively.	Specify security context: kill only processes
having security context that match with given extended regular expression
pattern.  Must precede other arguments on the command line.  Command names are
optional.  /proc location of the proc file system Killing by file only works
for executables that are kept open during execution, i.e. impure executables
can't be killed this way.  Be warned that typing may not have the desired
effect on non-Linux systems, especially when done by a privileged user.
doesn't detect if a process disappears and is replaced by a new process with
the same PID between scans.  If processes change their name, may not be able
to match them correctly.  has a limit of names that can be specified on the
command line.  This figure is the size of an unsigned long integer multiplied
by 8.  For most 32 bit systems the limit is 32 and similarly for a 64 bit
system the limit is usually 64.


