ld.so, ld-linux.so - dynamic linker/loader The dynamic linker can be run
either indirectly by running some dynamically linked program or shared object
(in which case no command-line options to the dynamic linker can be passed
and, in the ELF case, the dynamic linker which is stored in the section of the
program is executed) or directly by running: [OPTIONS] [PROGRAM [ARGUMENTS]]
The programs and find and load the shared objects (shared libraries) needed by
a program, prepare the program to run, and then run it.	 Linux binaries
require dynamic linking (linking at run time) unless the option was given to
during compilation.  The program handles a.out binaries, a binary format used
long ago.  The program (/lib/ld-linux.so.1 for libc5, /lib/ld-linux.so.2 for
glibc2) handles binaries that are in the more modern ELF format.  Both
programs have the same behavior, and use the same support files and programs
and When resolving shared object dependencies, the dynamic linker first
inspects each dependency string to see if it contains a slash (this can occur
if a shared object pathname containing slashes was specified at link time).
If a slash is found, then the dependency string is interpreted as a (relative
or absolute) pathname, and the shared object is loaded using that pathname.
If a shared object dependency does not contain a slash, then it is searched
for in the following order: Using the directories specified in the DT_RPATH
dynamic section attribute of the binary if present and DT_RUNPATH attribute
does not exist.	 Using the environment variable unless the executable is being
run in secure-execution mode (see below), in which case this variable is
ignored.  Using the directories specified in the DT_RUNPATH dynamic section
attribute of the binary if present.  Such directories are searched only to
find those objects required by DT_NEEDED (direct dependencies) entries and do
not apply to those objects' children, which must themselves have their own
DT_RUNPATH entries.  This is unlike DT_RPATH, which is applied to searches for
all children in the dependency tree.  From the cache file which contains a
compiled list of candidate shared objects previously found in the augmented
library path.  If, however, the binary was linked with the linker option,
shared objects in the default paths are skipped.  Shared objects installed in
hardware capability directories (see below) are preferred to other shared
objects.  In the default path and then (On some 64-bit architectures, the
default paths for 64-bit shared objects are and then If the binary was linked
with the linker option, this step is skipped.  In several places, the dynamic
linker expands dynamic string tokens: In the environment variables and inside
the values of the dynamic section tags and of ELF binaries, in the arguments
to the command line options and (see below), and in the filename arguments to
the and functions.  The substituted tokens are as follows: This expands to the
directory containing the program or shared object.  Thus, an application
located in could be compiled with gcc -Wl,-rpath,'$ORIGIN/../lib' so that it
finds an associated shared object in no matter where is located in the
directory hierarchy.  This facilitates the creation of "turn-key" applications
that do not need to be installed into special directories, but can instead be
unpacked into any directory and still find their own shared objects.  This
expands to or depending on the architecture (e.g., on x86-64, it expands to
and on x86-32, it expands to This expands to a string corresponding to the
processor type of the host system (e.g., "x86_64").  On some architectures,
the Linux kernel doesn't provide a platform string to the dynamic linker.  The
value of this string is taken from the value in the auxiliary vector (see Note
that the dynamic string tokens have to be quoted properly when set from a
shell, to prevent their expansion as shell or environment variables.  Set to
the value before running the program.  Use objects named in as auditors.  The
objects in are delimited by colons.  only search built-in subdirectories if in
Search glibc-hwcaps subdirectories in Do not use Use instead of environment
variable setting (see below).  The names and are interpreted as for the
environment variable.  Ignore RPATH and RUNPATH information in object names in
This option is ignored when running in secure-execution mode (see below).  The
objects in are delimited by colons or spaces.  List all dependencies and how
they are resolved.  Print system diagnostic information in a machine-readable
format, such as some internal loader variables, the auxiliary vector (see and
the environment variables.  On some architectures, the command might print
additional information (like the cpu features used in GNU indirect function
selection on x86).  Print the names and values of all tunables, along with the
minimum and maximum allowed values.  Preload the objects specified in The
objects in are delimited by colons or spaces.  The objects are preloaded as
explained in the description of the environment variable below.	 By contrast
with the option provides a way to perform preloading for a single executable
without affecting preloading performed in any child process that executes a
new program.  Verify that program is dynamically linked and this dynamic
linker can handle it.  Various environment variables influence the operation
of the dynamic linker.	For security reasons, if the dynamic linker determines
that a binary should be run in secure-execution mode, the effects of some
environment variables are voided or modified, and furthermore those
environment variables are stripped from the environment, so that the program
does not even see the definitions.  Some of these environment variables affect
the operation of the dynamic linker itself, and are described below.  Other
environment variables treated in this way include: and A binary is executed in
secure-execution mode if the entry in the auxiliary vector (see has a nonzero
value.	This entry may have a nonzero value for various reasons, including:
The process's real and effective user IDs differ, or the real and effective
group IDs differ.  This typically occurs as a result of executing a set-user-
ID or set-group-ID program.  A process with a non-root user ID executed a
binary that conferred capabilities to the process.  A nonzero value may have
been set by a Linux Security Module.  Among the more important environment
variables are the following: Each shared object can inform the dynamic linker
of the minimum kernel ABI version that it requires.  (This requirement is
encoded in an ELF note section that is viewable via as a section labeled At
run time, the dynamic linker determines the ABI version of the running kernel
and will reject loading shared objects that specify minimum ABI versions that
exceed that ABI version.  can be used to cause the dynamic linker to assume
that it is running on a system with a different kernel ABI version.  For
example, the following command line causes the dynamic linker to assume it is
running on Linux 2.2.5 when loading the shared objects required by $
LD_ASSUME_KERNEL=2.2.5 ./myprog On systems that provide multiple versions of a
shared object (in different directories in the search path) that have
different minimum kernel ABI version requirements, can be used to select the
version of the object that is used (dependent on the directory search order).
Historically, the most common use of the feature was to manually select the
older LinuxThreads POSIX threads implementation on systems that provided both
LinuxThreads and NPTL (which latter was typically the default on such
systems); see If set to a nonempty string, causes the dynamic linker to
resolve all symbols at program startup instead of deferring function call
resolution to the point when they are first referenced.	 This is useful when
using a debugger.  A list of directories in which to search for ELF libraries
at execution time.  The items in the list are separated by either colons or
semicolons, and there is no support for escaping either separator.  A zero-
length directory name indicates the current working directory.	This variable
is ignored in secure-execution mode.  Within the pathnames specified in the
dynamic linker expands the tokens and (or the versions using curly braces
around the names) as described above in Thus, for example, the following would
cause a library to be searched for in either the or subdirectory below the
directory containing the program to be executed: $
LD_LIBRARY_PATH='$ORIGIN/$LIB' prog (Note the use of single quotes, which
prevent expansion of and as shell variables!)  A list of additional, user-
specified, ELF shared objects to be loaded before all others.  This feature
can be used to selectively override functions in other shared objects.	The
items of the list can be separated by spaces or colons, and there is no
support for escaping either separator.	The objects are searched for using the
rules given under DESCRIPTION.	Objects are searched for and added to the link
map in the left-to-right order specified in the list.  In secure-execution
mode, preload pathnames containing slashes are ignored.	 Furthermore, shared
objects are preloaded only from the standard search directories and only if
they have set-user-ID mode bit enabled (which is not typical).	Within the
names specified in the list, the dynamic linker understands the tokens and (or
the versions using curly braces around the names) as described above in (See
also the discussion of quoting under the description of There are various
methods of specifying libraries to be preloaded, and these are handled in the
following order: The environment variable.  The command-line option when
invoking the dynamic linker directly.  The file (described below).  If set (to
any value), causes the program to list its dynamic dependencies, as if run by
instead of running normally.  Then there are lots of more or less obscure
variables, many obsolete or only for internal use.  A list of user-specified,
ELF shared objects to be loaded before all others in a separate linker
namespace (i.e., one that does not intrude upon the normal symbol bindings
that would occur in the process) These objects can be used to audit the
operation of the dynamic linker.  The items in the list are colon-separated,
and there is no support for escaping the separator.  is ignored in secure-
execution mode.	 The dynamic linker will notify the audit shared objects at
so-called auditing checkpoints—for example, loading a new shared object,
resolving a symbol, or calling a symbol from another shared object—by calling
an appropriate function within the audit shared object.	 For details, see The
auditing interface is largely compatible with that provided on Solaris, as
described in its in the chapter Within the names specified in the list, the
dynamic linker understands the tokens and (or the versions using curly braces
around the names) as described above in (See also the discussion of quoting
under the description of Since glibc 2.13, in secure-execution mode, names in
the audit list that contain slashes are ignored, and only shared objects in
the standard search directories that have the set-user-ID mode bit enabled are
loaded.	 If this environment variable is set to a nonempty string, do not
update the GOT (global offset table) and PLT (procedure linkage table) after
resolving a function symbol.  By combining the use of this variable with (with
the categories and one can observe all run-time function bindings.  Output
verbose debugging information about operation of the dynamic linker.  The
content of this variable is one or more of the following categories, separated
by colons, commas, or (if the value is quoted) spaces: Specifying in the value
of this variable does not run the specified program, and displays a help
message about which categories can be specified in this environment variable.
Print all debugging information (except and see below).	 Display information
about which definition each symbol is bound to.	 Display progress for input
file.  Display library search paths.  Display relocation processing.  Display
scope information.  Display relocation statistics.  Display search paths for
each symbol look-up.  Determine unused DSOs.  Display version dependencies.
Since glibc 2.3.4, is ignored in secure-execution mode, unless the file exists
(the content of the file is irrelevant).  By default, output is written to
standard error.	 If is defined, then output is written to the pathname
specified by its value, with the suffix "." (dot) followed by the process ID
appended to the pathname.  is ignored in secure-execution mode.	 By default,
when searching shared libraries to resolve a symbol reference, the dynamic
linker will resolve to the first definition it finds.  Old glibc versions
(before glibc 2.2), provided a different behavior: if the linker found a
symbol that was weak, it would remember that symbol and keep searching in the
remaining shared libraries.  If it subsequently found a strong definition of
the same symbol, then it would instead use that definition.  (If no further
symbol was found, then the dynamic linker would use the weak symbol that it
initially found.)  The old glibc behavior was nonstandard.  (Standard practice
is that the distinction between weak and strong symbols should have effect
only at static link time.)  In glibc 2.2, the dynamic linker was modified to
provide the current behavior (which was the behavior that was provided by most
other implementations at that time).  Defining the environment variable (with
any value) provides the old (nonstandard) glibc behavior, whereby a weak
symbol in one shared library may be overridden by a strong symbol subsequently
discovered in another shared library.  (Note that even when this variable is
set, a strong symbol in a shared library will not override a weak definition
of the same symbol in the main program.)  Since glibc 2.3.4, is ignored in
secure-execution mode.	Mask for hardware capabilities.	 Since glibc 2.26, the
option might be ignored if glibc does not support tunables.  Path where the
binary is found.  Since glibc 2.4, is ignored in secure-execution mode.	 Set
to 0 to disable pointer guarding.  Any other value enables pointer guarding,
which is also the default.  Pointer guarding is a security mechanism whereby
some pointers to code stored in writable program memory (return addresses
saved by or function pointers used by various glibc internals) are mangled
semi-randomly to make it more difficult for an attacker to hijack the pointers
for use in the event of a buffer overrun or stack-smashing attack.  Since
glibc 2.23, can no longer be used to disable pointer guarding, which is now
always enabled.	 The name of a (single) shared object to be profiled,
specified either as a pathname or a soname.  Profiling output is appended to
the file whose name is: Since glibc 2.2.5, uses a different default path in
secure-execution mode.	Directory where output should be written.  If this
variable is not defined, or is defined as an empty string, then the default is
is ignored in secure-execution mode; instead is always used.  If this
environment variable is defined (with any value), show the auxiliary array
passed up from the kernel (see also Since glibc 2.3.4, is ignored in secure-
execution mode.	 If this environment variable is defined, trace prelinking of
the object whose name is assigned to this environment variable.	 (Use to get a
list of the objects that might be traced.)  If the object name is not
recognized, then all prelinking activity is traced.  By default (i.e., if this
variable is not defined), executables and prelinked shared objects will honor
base addresses of their dependent shared objects and (nonprelinked) position-
independent executables (PIEs) and other shared objects will not honor them.
If is defined with the value 1, both executables and PIEs will honor the base
addresses.  If is defined with the value 0, neither executables nor PIEs will
honor the base addresses.  Since glibc 2.3.3, this variable is ignored in
secure-execution mode.	If set to a nonempty string, output symbol versioning
information about the program if the environment variable has been set.	 If
set to a nonempty string, warn about unresolved symbols.  According to the
Intel Silvermont software optimization guide, for 64-bit applications, branch
prediction performance can be negatively impacted when the target of a branch
is more than 4 GB away from the branch.	 If this environment variable is set
(to any value), the dynamic linker will first try to map executable pages
using the flag, and fall back to mapping without that flag if that attempt
fails.	NB: MAP_32BIT will map to the low 2 GB (not 4 GB) of the address
space.	Because reduces the address range available for address space layout
randomization (ASLR), is always disabled in secure-execution mode.  a.out
dynamic linker/loader ELF dynamic linker/loader File containing a compiled
list of directories in which to search for shared objects and an ordered list
of candidate shared objects.  See File containing a whitespace-separated list
of ELF shared objects to be loaded before the program.	See the discussion of
above.	If both and are employed, the libraries specified by are preloaded
first.	has a system-wide effect, causing the specified libraries to be
preloaded for all programs that are executed on the system.  (This is usually
undesirable, and is typically employed only as an emergency remedy, for
example, as a temporary workaround to a library misconfiguration issue.)
shared objects Some shared objects are compiled using hardware-specific
instructions which do not exist on every CPU.  Such objects should be
installed in directories whose names define the required hardware
capabilities, such as The dynamic linker checks these directories against the
hardware of the machine and selects the most suitable version of a given
shared object.	Hardware capability directories can be cascaded to combine CPU
features.  The list of supported hardware capability names depends on the CPU.
The following names are currently recognized: ev4, ev5, ev56, ev6, ev67
loongson2e, loongson2f, octeon, octeon2 4xxmac, altivec, arch_2_05, arch_2_06,
booke, cellbe, dfp, efpdouble, efpsingle, fpu, ic_snoop, mmu, notb, pa6t,
power4, power5, power5+, power6x, ppc32, ppc601, ppc64, smt, spe, ucache, vsx
flush, muldiv, stbar, swap, ultra3, v9, v9v, v9v2 dfp, eimm, esan3, etf3enh,
g5, highgprs, hpage, ldisp, msa, stfle, z900, z990, z9-109, z10, zarch acpi,
apic, clflush, cmov, cx8, dts, fxsr, ht, i386, i486, i586, i686, mca, mmx,
mtrr, pat, pbe, pge, pn, pse36, sep, ss, sse, sse2, tm The legacy hardware
capabilities support has the drawback that each new feature added grows the
search path exponentially, because it has to be added to every combination of
the other existing features.  For instance, on x86 32-bit, if the hardware
supports and the resulting search path will be A new capability will set the
search path to glibc 2.33 added a new hardware capability scheme, where under
each CPU architecture, certain levels can be defined, grouping support for
certain features or special instructions.  Each architecture level has a fixed
set of paths that it adds to the dynamic linker search list, depending on the
hardware of the machine.  Since each new architecture level is not combined
with previously existing ones, the new scheme does not have the drawback of
growing the dynamic linker search list uncontrollably.	For instance, on x86
64-bit, if the hardware supports (for instance Intel Haswell or AMD
Excavator), the resulting search path will be The following paths are
currently supported, in priority order.	 power10, power9 z16, z15, z14, z13
x86-64-v4, x86-64-v3, x86-64-v2 glibc 2.37 removed support for the legacy
hardware capabilities.


