ldconfig - configure dynamic linker run-time bindings creates the necessary
links and cache to the most recent shared libraries found in the directories
specified on the command line, in the file and in the trusted directories, and
On some 64-bit architectures such as x86-64, and are the trusted directories
for 32-bit libraries, while and are used for 64-bit libraries.	The cache is
used by the run-time linker, or checks the header and filenames of the
libraries it encounters when determining which versions should have their
links updated.	should normally be run by the superuser as it may require
write permission on some root owned directories and files.  will look only at
files that are named (for regular shared objects) or (for the dynamic loader
itself).  Other files will be ignored.	Also, expects a certain pattern to how
the symbolic links are set up, like this example, where the middle file here)
is the SONAME for the library: libfoo.so -> libfoo.so.1 -> libfoo.so.1.12
Failure to follow this pattern may result in compatibility issues after an
upgrade.  (Since glibc 2.2) Use cache format which is one of or Since glibc
2.32, the default is Before that, it was Use instead of Use instead of (Since
glibc 2.7) Ignore auxiliary cache file.	 (Since glibc 2.2) Interpret each
operand as a library name and configure its links.  Intended for use only by
experts.  Process only the directories specified on the command line; don't
process the trusted directories, nor those specified in Implies Don't rebuild
the cache.  Unless is also specified, links are still updated.	Print the
lists of directories and candidate libraries stored in the current cache.
Change to and use as the root directory.  Verbose mode.	 Print current version
number, the name of each directory as it is scanned, and any links that are
created.  Overrides quiet mode.	 Print program version.	 Don't update links.
Unless is also specified, the cache is still rebuilt.  is the run-time
linker/loader.	contains a list of directories, one per line, in which to
search for libraries.  contains an ordered list of libraries found in the
directories specified in as well as those found in the trusted directories.


