lexgrog - parse header information in man pages ...  is an implementation of
the traditional “groff guess” utility in It reads the list of files on its
command line as either man page source files or preformatted “cat” pages, and
displays their name and description as used by and the list of preprocessing
filters required by the man page before it is passed to or or both.  If its
input is badly formatted, will print “parse failed”; this may be useful for
external programs that need to check man pages for correctness.	 If one of
input files is “-”, it will read from standard input; if any input file is
compressed, a decompressed version will be read automatically.	Print
debugging information.	Parse input as man page source files.  This is the
default if neither nor is given.  Parse input as preformatted man pages (“cat
pages”).  and may not be given simultaneously.	Display the name and
description from the man page's header, as used by and This is the default if
neither nor is given.  Display the list of filters needed to preprocess the
man page before formatting with or -E encoding, --encoding encoding Override
the guessed character set for the page to Print a help message and exit.
Print a short usage message and exit.  Display version information.
Successful program execution.  Usage error.  failed to parse one or more of
its input files.
  $ lexgrog man.1
  man.1: "man - an interface to the system reference manuals"
  $ lexgrog -fw man.1
  man.1 (t): "man - an interface to the system reference manuals"
  $ lexgrog -c whatis.cat1
  whatis.cat1: "whatis - display manual page descriptions"
  $ lexgrog broken.1
  broken.1: parse failed
(which uses the same code as parses the section at the top of each manual page
looking for names and descriptions of the features documented in each.	While
the parser is quite tolerant, as it has to cope with a number of different
forms that have historically been used, it may sometimes fail to extract the
required information.  When using the traditional macro set, a correct section
looks something like this: .SH NAME foo \- program to do something Some manual
pagers require the ‘\-’ to be exactly as shown; is more tolerant, but for
compatibility with other systems it is nevertheless a good idea to retain the
backslash.  On the left-hand side, there may be several names, separated by
commas.	 Names containing whitespace will be ignored to avoid pathological
behaviour on certain ill-formed sections.  The text on the right-hand side is
free-form, and may be spread over multiple lines.  If several features with
different descriptions are being documented in the same manual page, the
following form is therefore used: .SH NAME foo, bar \- programs to do
something .br baz \- program to do nothing (A macro which starts a new
paragraph, like .PP, may be used instead of the break macro .br.)  When using
the BSD-derived macro set, a correct section looks something like this: .Sh
NAME .Nm foo .Nd program to do something

There are several common reasons why whatis parsing fails.  Sometimes authors
of manual pages replace ‘.SH NAME’ with ‘.SH MYPROGRAM’, and then cannot find
the section from which to extract the information it needs.  Sometimes authors
include a NAME section, but place free-form text there rather than ‘name \-
description’.  However, any syntax resembling the above should be accepted.
attempts to parse files containing .so requests, but will only be able to do
so correctly if the files are properly installed in a manual page hierarchy.
The code used by to scan man pages was written by:
Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk).
Fabrizio Polacco (fpolacco@debian.org).
Colin Watson (cjwatson@debian.org).
Colin Watson wrote the current incarnation of the command-line front-end, as
well as this man page.	https://gitlab.com/man-db/man-db/-/issues
https://savannah.nongnu.org/bugs/?group=man-db


