loadkeys - load keyboard translation tables [OPTION]... FILENAME...
The program reads the file or files specified by Its main purpose is to load
the kernel keymap for the console.  You can specify console device by the (or
) option.  If the (or ) option is given, loads a default keymap, probably the
file either in or in (Probably the former was user-defined, while the latter
is a qwerty keyboard map for PCs - maybe not what was desired.)	 Sometimes,
with a strange keymap loaded (with the minus on some obscure unknown modifier
combination) it is easier to type `loadkeys defkeymap.map'.  The main function
of is to load or modify the keyboard driver's translation tables.  When
specifying the file names, standard input can be denoted by dash (-). If no
file is specified, the data is read from the standard input.  For many
countries and keyboard types appropriate keymaps are available already, and a
command like `loadkeys uk' might do what you want. On the other hand, it is
easy to construct one's own keymap. The user has to tell what symbols belong
to each key. She can find the keycode for a key by use of while the keymap
format is given in and can also be seen from the output of If the input file
does not contain any compose key definitions, the kernel accent table is left
unchanged, unless the (or ) option is given, in which case the kernel accent
table is emptied.  If the input file does contain compose key definitions,
then all old definitions are removed, and replaced by the specified new
entries.  The kernel accent table is a sequence of (by default 68) entries
describing how dead diacritical signs and compose keys behave.	For example, a
line compose ',' 'c' to ccedilla means that <ComposeKey><,><c> must be
combined to <ccedilla>.	 The current content of this table can be see using
`dumpkeys --compose-only'.  The option (or ) clears the kernel string table.
If this option is not given, will only add or replace strings, not remove
them.  (Thus, the option -s is required to reach a well-defined state.)	 The
kernel string table is a sequence of strings with names like F31. One can make
function key F5 (on an ordinary PC keyboard) produce the text `Hello!', and
Shift+F5 `Goodbye!' using lines keycode 63 = F70 F71
string F70 = "Hello!"
string F71 = "Goodbye!"	 in the keymap.	 The default bindings for the function
keys are certain escape sequences mostly inspired by the VT100 terminal.  If
the (or ) option is given prints to the standard output a file that may be
used as specifying the default key bindings for a kernel (and does not modify
the current keymap).  If the (or ) option is given prints to the standard
output a file that may be used as a binary keymap as expected by Busybox
command (and does not modify the current keymap).  automatically detects
whether the console is in Unicode or ASCII (XLATE) mode.  When a keymap is
loaded, literal keysyms (such as are resolved accordingly; numerical keysyms
are converted to fit the current console mode, regardless of the way they are
specified (decimal, octal, hexadecimal or Unicode).  The (or switch forces to
convert all keymaps to Unicode.	 If the keyboard is in a non-Unicode mode,
such as XLATE, will change it to Unicode for the time of its execution.	 A
warning message will be printed in this case.  It is recommended to run before
instead of using the option.  Force conversion to ASCII.  prints its version
number and a short usage message to the programs standard error output and
exits.	searches and parses keymap without action.  suppresses all normal
output.	 prints version number and exits.  Note that anyone having read access
to can run and thus change the keyboard layout, possibly making it unusable.
Note that the keyboard translation table is common for all the virtual
consoles, so any changes to the keyboard bindings affect all the virtual
consoles simultaneously.  Note that because the changes affect all the virtual
consoles, they also outlive your session. This means that even at the login
prompt the key bindings may not be what the user expects.  default directory
for keymaps.  default kernel keymap.



