localedef - compile locale definition files The program reads the indicated
and files, compiles them to a binary form quickly usable by the locale
functions in the C library etc.), and places the output in The argument is
interpreted as follows: If contains a slash character ('/'), it is interpreted
as the name of the directory where the output definitions are to be stored.
In this case, there is a separate output file for each locale category and so
on).  If the option is used, is the name of a subdirectory in where per-
category compiled files are placed.  Otherwise, is the name of a locale and
the compiled locale data is added to the archive file A locale archive is a
memory-mapped file which contains all the system-provided locales; it is used
by all localized programs when the environment variable is not set.  In any
case, aborts if the directory in which it tries to write locale files has not
already been created.  If no is given, the value (for ASCII) is used by
default.  If no is given, or if it is given as a dash (-), reads from standard
input.	A few options direct to do something other than compile locale
definitions.  Only one of these options should be used at a time.  Add the
directories to the locale archive file.	 The directories should have been
created by previous runs of using Delete the named locales from the locale
archive file.  List the locales contained in the locale archive file.  Some of
the following options are sensible only for certain operations; generally, it
should be self-evident which ones.  Notice that and are reversed from what you
might expect; that is, is not the same as Specify the file that defines the
character set that is used by the input file.  If contains a slash character
('/'), it is interpreted as the name of the character map.  Otherwise, the
file is sought in the current directory and the default directory for
character maps.	 If the environment variable is set, and are also searched
after the current directory.  The default directory for character maps is
printed by Specify the locale definition file to compile.  The file is sought
in the current directory and the default directory for locale definition
files.	If the environment variable is set, and are also searched after the
current directory.  The default directory for locale definition files is
printed by Read mappings from symbolic names to Unicode code points from If
contains a slash character ('/'), it is interpreted as the pathname of the
repertoire map.	 Otherwise, the file is sought in the current directory and
the default directory for repertoire maps.  If the environment variable is
set, and are also searched after the current directory.	 The default directory
for repertoire maps is printed by Use to look up aliases for locale names.
There is no default aliases file.  Write the output files even if warnings
were generated about the input file.  Generate extra warnings about errors
that are normally ignored.  Generate big-endian output.	 Generate little-
endian output.	Do not use the locale archive file, instead create as a
subdirectory in the same directory as the locale archive file, and create
separate output files for locale categories in it.  This is helpful to prevent
system locale archive updates from overwriting custom locales created with Do
not create hard links between installed locales.  Comma-separated list of
warnings to disable.  Supported warnings are and Conform strictly to POSIX.
Implies This option currently has no other effect.  POSIX conformance is
assumed if the environment variable is set.  Set the prefix to be prepended to
the full archive pathname.  By default, the prefix is empty.  Setting the
prefix to the archive would be placed in Suppress all notifications and
warnings, and report only fatal errors.	 Replace a locale in the locale
archive file.  Without this option, if the locale is in the archive file
already, an error occurs.  Comma-separated list of warnings to enable.
Supported warnings are and Print a usage summary and exit.  Also prints the
default paths used by Print a short usage summary and exit.  Print the version
number, license, and disclaimer of warranty for One of the following exit
values can be returned by Command completed successfully.  Warnings or errors
occurred, output files were written.  Errors encountered, no output created.
The flag is assumed if this environment variable is set.  A colon-separated
list of search directories for files.  Usual default character map path.
Usual default path for locale definition files.	 Usual default repertoire map
path.  Usual default locale archive location.  Usual default path for compiled
individual locale data files.  An output file that contains information about
formatting of addresses and geography-related items.  An output file that
contains information about the rules for comparing strings.  An output file
that contains information about character classes.  An output file that
contains metadata about the locale.  An output file that contains information
about locale measurements (metric versus US customary).	 An output file that
contains information about the language messages should be printed in, and
what an affirmative or negative answer looks like.  An output file that
contains information about formatting of monetary values.  An output file that
contains information about salutations for persons.  An output file that
contains information about formatting of nonmonetary numeric values.  An
output file that contains information about settings related to standard paper
size.  An output file that contains information about formats to be used with
telephone services.  An output file that contains information about formatting
of data and time values.  POSIX.1-2008.	 Compile the locale files for Finnish
in the UTF-8 character set and add it to the default locale archive with the
name localedef -f UTF-8 -i fi_FI fi_FI.UTF-8 The next example does the same
thing, but generates files into the directory which can then be used by
programs when the environment variable is set to the current directory (note
that the last argument must contain a slash): localedef -f UTF-8 -i fi_FI
./fi_FI.UTF-8


