lsblk - list block devices

lsblk [options] [device...]

lsblk lists information about all available or the specified block devices.
The lsblk command reads the sysfs filesystem and udev db to gather
information. If the udev db is not available or lsblk is compiled without udev
support, then it tries to read LABELs, UUIDs and filesystem types from the
block device. In this case root permissions are necessary.

By default, the command prints all block devices (except RAM disks) in a
tree-like format. The same device can be repeated in the tree if it relates to
other devices. The --merge option is recommended for more complicated setups
to gather groups of devices and describe complex N:M relationships.

The tree-like output (or children[] array in the JSON output) is enabled only
if NAME column it present in the output or when --tree command line option is
used. See also --nodeps and --list to control the tree formatting.

The default output, as well as the default output from options like --fs and
--topology, is subject to change. So whenever possible, you should avoid using
default outputs in your scripts. Always explicitly define expected columns by
using --output columns-list and --list in environments where a stable output
is required.

Use lsblk --list-columns to get a list of all available columns.

Note that lsblk might be executed in time when udev does not have all
information about recently added or modified devices yet. In this case it is
recommended to use udevadm settle before lsblk to synchronize with udev.

The relationship between block devices and filesystems is not always
one-to-one. The filesystem may use more block devices, or the same filesystem
may be accessible by more paths. This is the reason why lsblk provides
MOUNTPOINT and MOUNTPOINTS (pl.) columns. The column MOUNTPOINT displays only
one mount point (usually the last mounted instance of the filesystem), and the
column MOUNTPOINTS displays by multi-line cell all mount points associated
with the device.

-A, --noempty Don’t print empty devices.

-a, --all Disable all built-in filters and list all empty devices and RAM disk
devices too.

-b, --bytes Print the sizes in bytes rather than in a human-readable format.

By default, the unit, sizes are expressed in, is byte, and unit prefixes are
in power of 2^10 (1024). Abbreviations of symbols are exhibited truncated in
order to reach a better readability, by exhibiting alone the first letter of
them; examples: "1 KiB" and "1 MiB" are respectively exhibited as "1 K" and "1
M", then omitting on purpose the mention "iB", which is part of these
abbreviations.

-H, --list-columns List the available columns, use with --json or --raw to get
output in machine-readable format.

-D, --discard Print information about the discarding capabilities (TRIM,
UNMAP) for each device.

-d, --nodeps Do not print holder devices or slaves. For example, lsblk
--nodeps /dev/sda prints information about the sda device only.

-E, --dedup column Use column as a de-duplication key to de-duplicate output
tree. If the key is not available for the device, or the device is a partition
and parental whole-disk device provides the same key than the device is always
printed.

The usual use case is to de-duplicate output on system multi-path devices, for
example by -E WWN.

-e, --exclude list Exclude the devices specified by the comma-separated list
of major device numbers. Note that RAM disks (major=1) are excluded by default
if --all is not specified. The filter is applied to the top-level devices
only. This may be confusing for --list output format where hierarchy of the
devices is not obvious.

-f, --fs Output info about filesystems. This option is equivalent to -o
NAME,FSTYPE,FSVER,LABEL,UUID,FSAVAIL,FSUSE%,MOUNTPOINTS. The authoritative
information about filesystems and raids is provided by the blkid(8) command.

--hyperlink[=mode] Print mountpoint paths as terminal hyperlinks. The mode can
be set to "always", "never", or "auto". The optional argument when can be set
to "auto", "never", or "always". If the when argument is omitted, it will
default to "auto". The "auto" setting means that hyperlinks will only be used
if the output is on a terminal.

-I, --include list Include devices specified by the comma-separated list of
major device numbers. The filter is applied to the top-level devices only.
This may be confusing for --list output format where hierarchy of the devices
is not obvious.

-i, --ascii Use ASCII characters for tree formatting.

-J, --json Use JSON output format. It’s strongly recommended to use --output
and also --tree if necessary. Note that children[] is used only if NAME column
or --tree is used.

-l, --list Produce output in the form of a list. The output does not provide
information about relationships between devices and since version 2.34 every
device is printed only once if --pairs or --raw not specified (the parsable
outputs are maintained in backwardly compatible way).

-M, --merge Group parents of sub-trees to provide more readable output for
RAIDs and Multi-path devices. The tree-like output is required.

-m, --perms Output info about device owner, group and mode. This option is
equivalent to -o NAME,SIZE,OWNER,GROUP,MODE.

-N, --nvme Output info about NVMe devices only.

-v, --virtio Output info about virtio devices only.

-n, --noheadings Do not print a header line.

-o, --output list Specify which output columns to print. Use --list-columns to
get a list of all supported columns. The columns may affect tree-like output.
The default is to use tree for the column 'NAME' (see also --tree).

The default list of columns may be extended if list is specified in the format
+list (e.g., lsblk -o +UUID).

-O, --output-all Output all available columns.

-P, --pairs Produce output in the form of key="value" pairs. The output lines
are still ordered by dependencies. All potentially unsafe value characters are
hex-escaped (\x<code>). See also option --shell.

-p, --paths Print full device paths.

-Q, --filter expr Print only the devices that meet the conditions specified by
the expr. The filter is assessed prior to lsblk collecting data for all output
columns. Only the necessary data for the lazy evaluation of the expression is
retrieved from the system. This approach can enhance performance when compared
to post-filtering, as commonly done by tools such as grep(1).

This feature is EXPERIMENTAL. See also scols-filter(5). For example
exclude sda  and sdb, but print everything else ('!~' is a negative
regular expression matching operator):

lsblk --filter 'NAME !~ "sd[ab]"'

--highlight expr Colorize lines matching the expression.  This feature is
EXPERIMENTAL. See also scols-filter(5).

--ct name [: param [: function ]] Define a custom counter. The counters are
printed after the standard output.  The name is the custom name of the
counter, the optional param is the name of the column to be used for the
counter, and the optional function specifies the aggregation function,
supported functions are: count, min, max, or sum. The default is count.

If the param is not specified, then the counter counts the number of lines.
This feature is EXPERIMENTAL. See also --ct-filter.

For example, --ct MyCounter:SIZE:sum will count the summary for SIZE
from all lines; and to count the number of SATA disks, it is possible to
use:

lsblk --ct-filter 'TYPE=="disk" && TRAN=="sata"' --ct "Number of SATA devices"

--ct-filter expr Define a restriction for the next counter. This feature
is EXPERIMENTAL. See also --ct and scols-filter(5). For example,
aggregate sizes by device type:

lsblk --ct-filter 'TYPE=="part"' --ct Partitions:SIZE:sum \
      --ct-filter 'TYPE=="disk"' --ct WholeDisks:SIZE:sum

-r, --raw Produce output in raw format. The output lines are still ordered by
dependencies. All potentially unsafe characters are hex-escaped (\x<code>) in
the NAME, KNAME, LABEL, PARTLABEL and MOUNTPOINT columns.

-S, --scsi Output info about SCSI devices only. All partitions, slaves and
holder devices are ignored.

-s, --inverse Print dependencies in inverse order. If the --list output is
requested then the lines are still ordered by dependencies.

-T, --tree[=column] Force tree-like output format. If column is specified,
then a tree is printed in the column. The default is NAME column.

-t, --topology Output info about block-device topology. This option is
equivalent to

-o NAME,ALIGNMENT,MIN-IO,OPT-IO,PHY-SEC,LOG-SEC,ROTA,SCHED,RQ-SIZE,RA,WSAME.

-w, --width number Specifies output width as a number of characters. The
default is the number of the terminal columns, and if not executed on a
terminal, then output width is not restricted at all by default. This option
also forces lsblk to assume that terminal control characters and unsafe
characters are not allowed. The expected use-case is for example when lsblk is
used by the watch(1) command.

-x, --sort column Sort output lines by column. This option enables --list
output format by default. It is possible to use the option --tree to force
tree-like output and than the tree branches are sorted by the column.

-y, --shell The column name will be modified to contain only characters
allowed for shell variable identifiers, for example, MIN_IO and FSUSE_PCT
instead of MIN-IO and FSUSE%. This is usable, for example, with --pairs. Note
that this feature has been automatically enabled for --pairs in version 2.37,
but due to compatibility issues, now it’s necessary to request this behavior
by --shell.

-z, --zoned Print the zone related information for each device.

--sysroot directory Gather data for a Linux instance other than the instance
from which the lsblk command is issued. The specified directory is the system
root of the Linux instance to be inspected. The real device nodes in the
target directory can be replaced by text files with udev attributes.

--properties-by list This option specifies the methods used by lsblk to gather
information about filesystems and partition tables. The list is a
comma-separated list of method names. The default setting is
"file,udev,blkid". The supported methods are:

udev Reads data from udev DB. If unsuccessful, it continues to the next
probing method.

blkid Reads data directly from the device using libblkid. If unsuccessful, it
continues to the next probing method.

file Reads data from a file. This method is only used if the --sysroot option
is specified. This method always stops probing if used.

none Does not probe. This method always stops probing.

-h, --help Display help text and exit.

-V, --version Display version and exit.

0 success

1 failure

32 none of specified devices found

64 some specified devices found, some not found

LSBLK_DEBUG=all enables lsblk debug output.

LIBBLKID_DEBUG=all enables libblkid debug output.

LIBMOUNT_DEBUG=all enables libmount debug output.

LIBSMARTCOLS_DEBUG=all enables libsmartcols debug output.

LIBSMARTCOLS_DEBUG_PADDING=on use visible padding characters.

For partitions, some information (e.g., queue attributes) is inherited from
the parent device.

The lsblk command needs to be able to look up each block device by major:minor
numbers, which is done by using /sys/dev/block. This sysfs block directory
appeared in kernel 2.6.27 (October 2008). In case of problems with a new
enough kernel, check that CONFIG_SYSFS was enabled at the time of the kernel
build.

Milan Broz <gmazyland@gmail.com>, Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>

blkid(8), findmnt(8) ls(1), scols-filter(5)

For bug reports, use the issue tracker
<https://github.com/util-linux/util-linux/issues>.

The lsblk command is part of the util-linux package which can be downloaded
from Linux Kernel Archive
<https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/>.


