lsof - list open files [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ]
[ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [names] revision
4.98.0 lists on its standard output file information about files opened by
processes for the following UNIX dialects:
     Apple Darwin 9, Mac OS X 10, macOS 11 and above
     FreeBSD 8.2 and above
     Linux 2.1.72 and above
     NetBSD 1.2 and above
     Solaris 9, 10 and 11 and above
(See the section of this manual page for information on how to obtain the
latest revision.)  An open file may be a regular file, a directory, a block
special file, a character special file, an executing text reference, a
library, a stream or a network file (Internet socket, NFS file or UNIX domain
socket.)  A specific file or all the files in a file system may be selected by
path.  Instead of a formatted display, will produce output that can be parsed
by other programs.  See the option description, and the section for more
information.  In addition to producing a single output list, will run in
repeat mode.  In repeat mode it will produce output, delay, then repeat the
output operation until stopped with an interrupt or quit signal.  See the
option description for more information.  In the absence of any options, lists
all open files belonging to all active processes.  If any list request option
is specified, other list requests must be specifically requested - e.g., if is
specified for the listing of UNIX socket files, NFS files won't be listed
unless is also specified; or if a user list is specified with the option, UNIX
domain socket files, belonging to users not in the list, won't be listed
unless the option is also specified.  Normally, list options that are
specifically stated are ORed - i.e., specifying the option without an address
and the -ufoo option produces a listing of all network files OR files
belonging to processes owned by user ``foo''.  The exceptions are: 1) the `^'
(negated) login name or user ID (UID), specified with the option; 2) the `^'
(negated) process ID (PID), specified with the option; 3) the `^' (negated)
process group ID (PGID), specified with the option; 4) the `^' (negated)
command, specified with the option; 5) the (`^') negated TCP or UDP protocol
state names, specified with the option.	 Since they represent exclusions, they
are applied without ORing or ANDing and take effect before any other selection
criteria are applied.  The option may be used to AND the selections.  For
example, specifying and -ufoo produces a listing of only UNIX socket files
that belong to processes owned by user ``foo''.	 Caution: the option causes
all list selection options to be ANDed; it can't be used to cause ANDing of
selected pairs of selection options by placing it between them, even though
its placement there is acceptable.  Wherever is placed, it causes the ANDing
of all selection options.  Items of the same selection set - command names,
file descriptors, network addresses, process identifiers, user identifiers,
zone names, security contexts - are joined in a single ORed set and applied
before the result participates in ANDing.  Thus, for example, specifying
-i@aaa.bbb, -i@ccc.ddd, and -ufff,ggg will select the listing of files that
belong to either login ``fff'' OR ``ggg'' AND have network connections to
either host aaa.bbb OR ccc.ddd.	 Options may be grouped together following a
single prefix -- e.g., the option set ``-a -b -C'' may be stated as However,
since values are optional following and when you have no values for them be
careful that the following character isn't ambiguous.  For example, might
represent the and options, or it might represent the field identifier
character following the option.	 When ambiguity is possible, start a new
option with a `-' character - e.g., ``-F -n''.	If the next option is a file
name, follow the possibly ambiguous option with ``--'' - e.g., ``-F -- name''.
Either the `+' or the `-' prefix may be applied to a group of options.
Options that don't take on separate meanings for each prefix - e.g., -i - may
be grouped under either prefix.	 Thus, for example, ``+M -i'' may be stated as
``+Mi'' and the group means the same as the separate options.  Be careful of
prefix grouping when one or more options in the group does take on separate
meanings under different prefixes - e.g., +|-M; ``-iM'' is not the same
request as ``-i +M''.  When in doubt, use separate options with appropriate
prefixes.  These two equivalent options select a usage (help) output list.
displays a shortened form of this output when it detects an error in the
options supplied to it, after it has displayed messages explaining each error.
(Escape the `?' character as your shell requires.)  causes list selection
options to be ANDed, as described above.  is available on systems configured
for AFS whose AFS kernel code is implemented via dynamic modules.  It allows
the user to specify as an alternate name list file where the kernel addresses
of the dynamic modules might be found.	See the FAQ (The FAQ section gives its
location.)  for more information about dynamic modules, their symbols, and how
they affect causes to avoid kernel functions that might block - and See the
and sections for information on using this option.  selects the listing of
files for processes executing the command that begins with the characters of
Multiple commands may be specified, using multiple options.  They are joined
in a single ORed set before participating in AND option selection.  If begins
with a `^', then the following characters specify a command name whose
processes are to be ignored (excluded.)	 If begins and ends with a slash
('/'), the characters between the slashes are interpreted as a regular
expression.  Shell meta-characters in the regular expression must be quoted to
prevent their interpretation by the shell.  The closing slash may be followed
by these modifiers:
     b	  the regular expression is a basic one.
     i	  ignore the case of letters.
     x	  the regular expression is an extended one
	  (default).
See the FAQ (The FAQ section gives its location.)  for more information on
basic and extended regular expressions.	 The simple command specification is
tested first.  If that test fails, the command regular expression is applied.
If the simple command test succeeds, the command regular expression test isn't
made.  This may result in ``no command found for regex:'' messages when lsof's
option is specified.  defines the maximum number of initial characters of the
name, supplied by the UNIX dialect, of the UNIX command associated with a
process to be printed in the COMMAND column.  (The default is nine.)  Note
that many UNIX dialects do not supply all command name characters to in the
files and structures from which obtains command name.  Often dialects limit
the number of characters supplied in those sources.  For example, Linux 2.4.27
and Solaris 9 both limit command name length to 16 characters.	If is zero
('0'), all command characters supplied to by the UNIX dialect will be printed.
If is less than the length of the column title, ``COMMAND'', it will be raised
to that length.	 disables the reporting of any path name components from the
kernel's name cache.  See the section for more information.  causes to search
for all open instances of directory and the files and directories it contains
at its top level.  does NOT descend the directory tree, rooted at The option
may be used to request a full-descent directory tree search, rooted at
directory Processing of the option does not follow symbolic links within
unless the or option is also specified.	 Nor does it search for open files on
file system mount points on subdirectories of unless the or option is also
specified.  Note: the authority of the user of this option limits it to
searching for files that the user has permission to examine with the system
function.  specifies a list of file descriptors (FDs) to exclude from or
include in the output listing.	The file descriptors are specified in the
comma-separated set - e.g., ``cwd,1,3'', ``^6,^2''.  (There should be no
spaces in the set.)  The list is an exclusion list if all entries of the set
begin with `^'.	 It is an inclusion list if no entry begins with `^'.  Mixed
lists are not permitted.  A file descriptor number range may be in the set as
long as neither member is empty, both members are numbers, and the ending
member is larger than the starting one - e.g., ``0-7'' or ``3-10''.  Ranges
may be specified for exclusion if they have the `^' prefix - e.g., ``^0-7''
excludes all file descriptors 0 through 7.  Multiple file descriptor numbers
are joined in a single ORed set before participating in AND option selection.
When there are exclusion and inclusion members in the set, reports them as
errors and exits with a non-zero return code.  See the description of File
Descriptor (FD) output values in the section for more information on file
descriptor names.  fd is a pseudo file descriptor name for specifying the
whole range of possible file descriptor numbers.  fd does not appear in FD
column of output.  causes to search for all open instances of directory and
all the files and directories it contains to its complete depth.  Processing
of the option does not follow symbolic links within unless the or option is
also specified.	 Nor does it search for open files on file system mount points
on subdirectories of unless the or option is also specified.  Note: the
authority of the user of this option limits it to searching for files that the
user has permission to examine with the system function.  Further note: may
process this option slowly and require a large amount of dynamic memory to do
it.  This is because it must descend the entire directory tree, rooted at
calling for each file and directory, building a list of all the files it
finds, and searching that list for a match with every open file.  When
directory is large, these steps can take a long time, so use this option
prudently.  directs use of the device cache file.  The use of this option is
sometimes restricted.  See the section and the sections that follow it for
more information on this option.  must be followed by a function letter; the
function letter may optionally be followed by a path name.  recognizes these
function letters:
     ? - report device cache file paths
     b - build the device cache file
     i - ignore the device cache file
     r - read the device cache file
     u - read and update the device cache file
The and functions, accompanied by a path name, are sometimes restricted.  When
these functions are restricted, they will not appear in the description of the
option that accompanies or option output.  See the section and the sections
that follow it for more information on these functions and when they're
restricted.  The function reports the read-only and write paths that lsof can
use for the device cache file, the names of any environment variables whose
values will examine when forming the device cache file path, and the format
for the personal device cache file path.  (Escape the `?' character as your
shell requires.)  When available, the and functions may be followed by the
device cache file's path.  The standard default is in the home directory of
the real user ID that executes but this could have been changed when was
configured and compiled.  (The output of the and options show the current
default prefix - e.g., ``.lsof''.)  The suffix, is the first component of the
host's name returned by When available, the function directs to build a new
device cache file at the default or specified path.  The function directs to
ignore the default device cache file and obtain its information about devices
via direct calls to the kernel.	 The function directs to read the device cache
at the default or specified path, but prevents it from creating a new device
cache file when none exists or the existing one is improperly structured.  The
function, when specified without a path name, prevents from updating an
incorrect or outdated device cache file, or creating a new one in its place.
The function is always available when it is specified without a path name
argument; it may be restricted by the permissions of the process.  When
available, the function directs to read the device cache file at the default
or specified path, if possible, and to rebuild it, if necessary.  This is the
default device cache file function when no option has been specified.  exempts
the file system whose path name is from being subjected to kernel function
calls that might block.	 The option exempts and most kernel function calls.
The option exempts only and kernel function calls.  Multiple file systems may
be specified with separate specifications and each may have calls exempted or
not.  This option is currently implemented only for Linux.  this option can
easily be mis-applied to other than the file system of interest, because it
uses path name rather than the more reliable device and inode numbers.
(Device and inode numbers are acquired via the potentially blocking kernel
call and are thus not available, but see the option as a possible alternative
way to supply device numbers.)	Use this option with great care and fully
specify the path name of the file system to be exempted. When open files on
exempted file systems are reported, it may not be possible to obtain all their
information.  Therefore, some information columns will be blank, the
characters ``UNKN'' preface the values in the TYPE column, and the applicable
exemption option is added in parentheses to the end of the NAME column.	 (Some
device number information might be made available via the option.)  specifies
that Linux pipe, Linux UNIX socket, Linux INET(6) socket closed in a local
host, Linux pseudoterminal files, POSIX Message Queueue implementation in
Linux, and Linux eventfd should be displayed with endpoint information and the
files of the endpoints should also be displayed.  Note 1: UNIX socket file
endpoint information is only available when the features enabled line of
output contains uxsockept, and psudoterminal endpoint information is only
available when the features enabled line contains ptyept.  Note 2: POSIX
Message Queue file endpoint information is only available when mqueue file
system is mounted.  Pipe endpoint information is displayed in the NAME column
in the form ``PID,cmd,FDmode'', where is the endpoint process ID; is the
endpoint process command; is the endpoint file's descriptor; and is the
endpoint file's access mode.  Pseudoterminal endpoint information is displayed
in the NAME column as ``->/dev/ptsmin PID,cmd,FDmode'' or ``PID,cmd,FDmode''.
The first form is for a master device; the second, for a slave device.	is a
slave device's minor device number; and and are the same as with pipe endpoint
information.  Note: psudoterminal endpoint information is only available when
the features enabled line of output contains ptyept. In addition, this feature
works on Linux kernels above 4.13.0.  UNIX socket file endpoint information is
displayed in the NAME column in the form
``type=TYPE ->INO=INODE PID,cmd,FDmode'', where is the socket type; is the i-
node number of the connected socket; and and are the same as with pipe
endpoint information.  Note: UNIX socket file endpoint information is
available only when the features enabled line of output contains uxsockept.
INET socket file endpoint information is inserted to the value at the NAME
column in the form
`` -> PID,cmd,FDmode'', where and are the same as with pipe endpoint
information. The endpoint information is available only if the socket is used
for local IPC; both endpoints bind to the same local IPv4 or IPv6 address.
POSIX Message Queue file endpoint information is displayed in the NAME column
in the same form as that of pipe.  eventfd endpoint information is displayed
in the NAME column in the same form as that of pipe. This feature works on
Linux kernels above 5.2.0.  Multiple occurrences of this information can
appear in a file's NAME column.	 specifies that endpoint supported files
should be displayed with endpoint information, but not the files of the
endpoints.  by itself clarifies how path name arguments are to be interpreted.
When followed by or in any combination it specifies that the listing of kernel
file structure information is to be enabled (`+') or inhibited (`-').
Normally a path name argument is taken to be a file system name if it matches
a mounted-on directory name reported by or if it represents a block device,
named in the output and associated with a mounted directory name.  When is
specified, all path name arguments will be taken to be file system names, and
will complain if any are not.  This can be useful, for example, when the file
system name (mounted-on device) isn't a block device.  This happens for some
CD-ROM file systems.  When is specified by itself, all path name arguments
will be taken to be simple files.  Thus, for example, the ``-f -- /''
arguments direct lsof to search for open files with a `/' path name, not all
open files in the `/' (root) file system.  Be careful to make sure and are
properly terminated and aren't followed by a character (e.g., of the file or
file system name) that might be taken as a parameter.  For example, use ``--''
after and as in these examples.
     $ lsof +f -- /file/system/name
     $ lsof -f -- /file/name
The listing of information from kernel file structures, requested with the
option form, is normally inhibited, and is not available in whole or part for
some dialects - e.g., /proc-based Linux kernels below 2.6.22.  When the prefix
to is a plus sign (`+'), these characters request file structure information:
     c	  file structure use count (not Linux)
     f	  file structure address (not Linux)
     g	  file flag abbreviations (Linux 2.6.22 and up)

	  Abbrev.   Flag in C code (see open(2))

	  W	    O_WRONLY
	  RW	    O_RDWR
	  CR	    O_CREAT
	  EXCL	    O_EXCL
	  NTTY	    O_NOCTTY
	  TR	    O_TRUNC
	  AP	    O_APPEND
	  ND	    O_NDELAY
	  SYN	    O_SYNC
	  ASYN	    O_ASYNC
	  DIR	    O_DIRECT
	  DTY	    O_DIRECTORY
	  NFLK	    O_NOFOLLOW
	  NATM	    O_NOATIME
	  DSYN	    O_DSYNC
	  RSYN	    O_RSYNC
	  LG	    O_LARGEFILE
	  CX	    O_CLOEXEC
	  TMPF	    O_TMPFILE

     G	  file flags in hexadecimal (Linux 2.6.22 and up)
     n	  file structure node address (not Linux)
When the prefix is minus (`-') the same characters disable the listing of the
indicated values.  File structure addresses, use counts, flags, and node
addresses may be used to detect more readily identical files inherited by
child processes and identical files in use by different processes.  column
output can be sorted by output columns holding the values and listed to
identify identical file use, or field output can be parsed by an AWK or Perl
post-filter script, or by a C program.	specifies a character list, that
selects the fields to be output for processing by another program, and the
character that terminates each output field.  Each field to be output is
specified with a single character in The field terminator defaults to NL, but
may be changed to NUL (000).  See the section for a description of the field
identification characters and the field output process.	 When the field
selection character list is empty, all standard fields are selected (except
the raw device field, security context and zone field for compatibility
reasons) and the NL field terminator is used.  When the field selection
character list contains only a zero (`0'), all fields are selected (except the
raw device field for compatibility reasons) and the NUL terminator character
is used.  Other combinations of fields and their associated field terminator
character must be set with explicit entries in as described in the section.
When a field selection character identifies an item does not normally list -
e.g., PPID, selected with specification of the field character - e.g., ``-FR''
- also selects the listing of the item.	 When the field selection character
list contains the single character `?', will display a help list of the field
identification characters.  (Escape the `?' character as your shell requires.)
excludes or selects the listing of files for the processes whose optional
process group IDentification (PGID) numbers are in the comma-separated set -
e.g., ``123'' or ``123,^456''.	(There should be no spaces in the set.)	 PGID
numbers that begin with `^' (negation) represent exclusions.  Multiple PGID
numbers are joined in a single ORed set before participating in AND option
selection.  However, PGID exclusions are applied without ORing or ANDing and
take effect before other selection criteria are applied.  The option also
enables the output display of PGID numbers.  When specified without a PGID set
that's all it does.  directs lsof to print human readable sizes, e.g. 123.4K
456.7M.	 selects the listing of files any of whose Internet address matches
the address specified in i.  If no address is specified, this option selects
the listing of all Internet and x.25 (HP-UX) network files.  If or is
specified with no following address, only files of the indicated IP version,
IPv4 or IPv6, are displayed.  (An IPv6 specification may be used only if the
dialects supports IPv6, as indicated by ``[46]'' and ``IPv[46]'' in or
output.)  Sequentially specifying followed by is the same as specifying and
vice-versa.  Specifying or after is the same as specifying or by itself.
Multiple addresses (up to a limit of 100) may be specified with multiple
options.  (A port number or service name range is counted as one address.)
They are joined in a single ORed set before participating in AND option
selection.  An Internet address is specified in the form (Items in square
brackets are optional.):

where:
     46 specifies the IP version, IPv4 or IPv6
	  that applies to the following address.
	  '6' may be be specified only if the UNIX
	  dialect supports IPv6.  If neither '4' nor
	  '6' is specified, the following address
	  applies to all IP versions.
     protocol is a protocol name - TCP, UDP or UDPLITE.
     hostname is an Internet host name.	 Unless a
	  specific IP version is specified, open
	  network files associated with host names
	  of all versions will be selected.
     hostaddr is a numeric Internet IPv4 address in
	  dot form; or an IPv6 numeric address in
	  colon form, enclosed in brackets, if the
	  UNIX dialect supports IPv6.  When an IP
	  version is selected, only its numeric
	  addresses may be specified.
     service is an /etc/services name - e.g., smtp -
	  or a list of them.
     port is a port number, or a list of them.
IPv6 options may be used only if the UNIX dialect supports IPv6.  To see if
the dialect supports IPv6, run and specify the or (help) option.  If the
displayed description of the option contains ``[46]'' and ``IPv[46]'', IPv6 is
supported.  IPv4 host names and addresses may not be specified if network file
selection is limited to IPv6 with IPv6 host names and addresses may not be
specified if network file selection is limited to IPv4 with When an open IPv4
network file's address is mapped in an IPv6 address, the open file's type will
be IPv6, not IPv4, and its display will be selected by '6', not '4'.  At least
one address component - or - must be supplied.	The `@' character, leading the
host specification, is always required; as is the `:', leading the port
specification.	Specify either or Specify either name list or number list.  If
a name list is specified, the may also need to be specified if the TCP, UDP
and UDPLITE port numbers for the service name are different.  Use any case -
lower or upper - for names and numbers may be combined in a list whose entries
are separated by commas and whose numeric range entries are separated by minus
signs.	There may be no embedded spaces, and all service names must belong to
the specified Since service names may contain embedded minus signs, the
starting entry of a range can't be a service name; it can be a port number,
however.  Here are some sample addresses:

     -i6 - IPv6 only
     TCP:25 - TCP and port 25
     @1.2.3.4 - Internet IPv4 host address 1.2.3.4
     @[3ffe:1ebc::1]:1234 - Internet IPv6 host address
	  3ffe:1ebc::1, port 1234
     UDP:who - UDP who service port
     TCP@lsof.itap:513 - TCP, port 513 and host name lsof.itap
     tcp@foo:1-10,smtp,99 - TCP, ports 1 through 10,
	  service name smtp, port 99, host name foo
     tcp@bar:1-smtp - TCP, ports 1 through smtp, host bar
     :time - either TCP, UDP or UDPLITE time service port
selects the listing of tasks (threads) of processes, on dialects where task
(thread) reporting is supported.  (If help output - i.e., the output of the or
options - shows this option, then task (thread) reporting is supported by the
dialect.)  If is followed by a value, it must be ``i''.	 That causes to ignore
tasks, particularly in the default, list-everything case when no other options
are specified.	When and are both specified on Linux, and the tasks of a main
process are selected by other options, the main process will also be listed as
though it were a task, but without a task ID.  (See the description of the TID
column in the section.)	 Where the FreeBSD version supports threads, all
threads will be listed with their IDs.	In general threads and tasks inherit
the files of the caller, but may close some and open others, so always reports
all the open files of threads and tasks.  specifies a kernel name list file,
in place of /vmunix, /mach, etc.  is not available under AIX on the IBM
RISC/System 6000.  inhibits the conversion of user ID numbers to login names.
It is also useful when login name lookup is working improperly or slowly.
enables (`+') or disables (`-') the listing of file link counts, where they
are available - e.g., they aren't available for sockets, or most FIFOs and
pipes.	When is specified without a following number, all link counts will be
listed.	 When is specified (the default), no link counts will be listed.  When
is followed by a number, only files having a link count less than that number
will be listed.	 (No number may follow A specification of the form ``+L1''
will select open files that have been unlinked.	 A specification of the form
``+aL1 <file_system>'' will select unlinked open files on the specified file
system.	 For other link count comparisons, use field output (-F) and a
post-processing script or program.  specifies an alternate kernel memory file
or activates mount table supplement processing.	 The option form specifies a
kernel memory file, in place of or - e.g., a crash dump file.  The option form
requests that a mount supplement file be written to the standard output file.
All other options are silently ignored.	 There will be a line in the mount
supplement file for each mounted file system, containing the mounted file
system directory, followed by a single space, followed by the device number in
hexadecimal "0x" format - e.g.,
     / 0x801
can use the mount supplement file to get device numbers for file systems when
it can't get them via or The option form identifies as a mount supplement
file.  Note: the and options are not available for all supported dialects.
Check the output of or options to see if the and options are available.
Enables (+) or disables (-) the reporting of portmapper registrations for
local TCP, UDP and UDPLITE ports, where port mapping is supported.  (See the
last paragraph of this option description for information about where
portmapper registration reporting is supported.)  The default reporting mode
is set by the builder with the HASPMAPENABLED #define in the dialect's
machine.h header file; is distributed with the HASPMAPENABLED #define
deactivated, so portmapper reporting is disabled by default and must be
requested with Specifying or option will report the default mode.  Disabling
portmapper registration when it is already disabled or enabling it when
already enabled is acceptable.	When portmapper registration reporting is
enabled, displays the portmapper registration (if any) for local TCP, UDP or
UDPLITE ports in square brackets immediately following the port numbers or
service names - e.g., ``:1234[name]'' or ``:name[100083]''.  The registration
information may be a name or number, depending on what the registering program
supplied to the portmapper when it registered the port.	 When portmapper
registration reporting is enabled, may run a little more slowly or even become
blocked when access to the portmapper becomes congested or stopped.  Reverse
the reporting mode to determine if portmapper registration reporting is
slowing or blocking For purposes of portmapper registration reporting
considers a TCP, UDP or UDPLITE port local if: it is found in the local part
of its containing kernel structure; or if it is located in the foreign part of
its containing kernel structure and the local and foreign Internet addresses
are the same; or if it is located in the foreign part of its containing kernel
structure and the foreign Internet address is INADDR_LOOPBACK (127.0.0.1).
This rule may make ignore some foreign ports on machines with multiple
interfaces when the foreign Internet address is on a different interface from
the local one.	See the FAQ (The FAQ section gives its location.)  for further
discussion of portmapper registration reporting issues.	 Portmapper
registration reporting is supported only on dialects that have RPC header
files.	(Some Linux distributions with GlibC 2.14 do not have them.)  When
portmapper registration reporting is supported, the or help output will show
the option.  inhibits the conversion of network numbers to host names for
network files.	Inhibiting conversion may make run faster.  It is also useful
when host name lookup is not working properly.	selects the listing of NFS
files.	directs to display file offset at all times.  It causes the SIZE/OFF
output column title to be changed to OFFSET.  Note: on some UNIX dialects
can't obtain accurate or consistent file offset information from its kernel
data sources, sometimes just for particular kinds of files (e.g., socket
files.)	 Consult the FAQ (The FAQ section gives its location.)	for more
information.  The and options are mutually exclusive; they can't both be
specified.  When neither is specified, displays whatever value - size or
offset - is appropriate and available for the type of the file.	 defines the
number of decimal digits (o) to be printed after the ``0t'' for a file offset
before the form is switched to ``0x...''.  An value of zero (unlimited)
directs to use the ``0t'' form for all offset output.  This option does NOT
direct to display offset at all times; specify (without a trailing number) to
do that.  only specifies the number of digits after ``0t'' in either mixed
size and offset or offset-only output.	Thus, for example, to direct to
display offset at all times with a decimal digit count of 10, use:
     -o -o 10
or
     -oo10
The default number of digits allowed after ``0t'' is normally 8, but may have
been changed by the lsof builder.  Consult the description of the option in
the output of the or option to determine the default that is in effect.
directs to bypass the strategy it uses to avoid being blocked by some kernel
operations - i.e., doing them in forked child processes.  See the and sections
for more information on kernel operations that may block While use of this
option will reduce startup overhead, it may also cause to hang when the kernel
doesn't respond to a function.	Use this option cautiously.  excludes or
selects the listing of files for the processes whose optional process
IDentification (PID) numbers are in the comma-separated set - e.g., ``123'' or
``123,^456''.  (There should be no spaces in the set.)	PID numbers that begin
with `^' (negation) represent exclusions.  Multiple process ID numbers are
joined in a single ORed set before participating in AND option selection.
However, PID exclusions are applied without ORing or ANDing and take effect
before other selection criteria are applied.  inhibits the conversion of port
numbers to port names for network files.  Inhibiting the conversion may make
run a little faster.  It is also useful when port name lookup is not working
properly.  ignore failed search terms. When is told to search for users of a
file, or for users of a device, or for a specific PID, or for certain
protocols in use by that PID, and so on, will return an error if any of the
search results are empty. The option will change this behavior so that will
instead return a successful exit code (0) even if any of the search results
are empty. In addition, missing search terms will not be reported to stderr.
puts in repeat mode.  There lists open files as selected by other options,
delays seconds (default fifteen), then repeats the listing, delaying and
listing repetitively until stopped by a condition defined by the prefix to the
option.	 If the prefix is a `-', repeat mode is endless.  must be terminated
with an interrupt or quit signal.  `c<N>' is for specifying the limits of
repeating; if the number of iterations reaches at `<N>', stops itself.	If the
prefix is `+', repeat mode will end the first cycle no open files are listed -
and of course when is stopped with an interrupt or quit signal.	 When repeat
mode ends because no files are listed, the process exit code will be zero if
any open files were ever listed; one, if none were ever listed.	 marks the end
of each listing: if field output is in progress (the option has been
specified), the default marker is `m'; otherwise the default marker is
``========''.  The marker is followed by a NL character.  The optional
"m<fmt>" argument specifies a format for the marker line.  The <fmt>
characters following `m' are interpreted as a format specification to the
function, when both it and the function are available in the dialect's C
library.  Consult the documentation for what may appear in its format
specification.	Note that when field output is requested with the option,
<fmt> cannot contain the NL format, ``%n''.  Note also that when <fmt>
contains spaces or other characters that affect the shell's interpretation of
arguments, <fmt> must be quoted appropriately.	Repeat mode reduces startup
overhead, so it is more efficient to use this mode than to call repetitively
from a shell script, for example.  To use repeat mode most efficiently,
accompany with specification of other selection options, so the amount of
kernel memory access does will be kept to a minimum.  Options that filter at
the process level - e.g., - are the most efficient selectors.  Repeat mode is
useful when coupled with field output (see the option description) and a
supervising or script, or a C program.	directs lsof to list the Parent
Process IDentification number in the PPID column.  alone directs to display
file size at all times.	 It causes the SIZE/OFF output column title to be
changed to SIZE.  If the file does not have a size, nothing is displayed.  The
optional form is available only for selected dialects, and only when the or
help output lists it.  When the optional form is available, the may be
followed by a protocol name (p), either TCP or UDP, a colon (`:') and a
comma-separated protocol state name list, the option causes open TCP and UDP
files to be excluded if their state name(s) are in the list (s) preceded by a
`^'; or included if their name(s) are not preceded by a `^'.  Dialects that
support this option may support only one protocol.  When an unsupported
protocol is specified, a message will be displayed indicating state names for
the protocol are unavailable.  When an inclusion list is defined, only network
files with state names in the list will be present in the output.  Thus,
specifying one state name means that only network files with that lone state
name will be listed.  Case is unimportant in the protocol or state names, but
there may be no spaces and the colon (`:') separating the protocol name (p)
and the state name list (s) is required.  If only TCP and UDP files are to be
listed, as controlled by the specified exclusions and inclusions, the option
must be specified, too.	 If only a single protocol's files are to be listed,
add its name as an argument to the option.  For example, to list only network
files with TCP state LISTEN, use:
     -iTCP -sTCP:LISTEN
Or, for example, to list network files with all UDP states except Idle, use:
     -iUDP -sUDP:^Idle
State names vary with UNIX dialects, so it's not possible to provide a
complete list.	Some common TCP state names are: CLOSED, IDLE, BOUND, LISTEN,
ESTABLISHED, SYN_SENT, SYN_RCDV, ESTABLISHED, CLOSE_WAIT, FIN_WAIT1, CLOSING,
LAST_ACK, FIN_WAIT_2, and TIME_WAIT.  Two common UDP state names are Unbound
and Idle.  See the FAQ (The FAQ section gives its location.)  for more
information on how to use protocol state exclusion and inclusion, including
examples.  The (without a following decimal digit count) and option (without a
following protocol and state name list) are mutually exclusive; they can't
both be specified.  When neither is specified, displays whatever value - size
or offset - is appropriate and available for the type of file.	Since some
types of files don't have true sizes - sockets, FIFOs, pipes, etc. - lsof
displays for their sizes the content amounts in their associated kernel
buffers, if possible.  specifies an optional time-out seconds value for kernel
functions - and - that might otherwise deadlock.  The minimum for is two; the
default, fifteen; when no value is specified, the default is used.  See the
section for more information.  controls the reporting of some TCP/TPI
information, also reported by following the network addresses.	In normal
output the information appears in parentheses, each item except TCP or TPI
state name identified by a keyword, followed by `=', separated from others by
a single space:
     <TCP or TPI state name>
     QR=<read queue length>
     QS=<send queue length>
     SO=<socket options and values>
     SS=<socket states>
     TF=<TCP flags and values>
     WR=<window read length>
     WW=<window write length>
Not all values are reported for all UNIX dialects.  Items values (when
available) are reported after the item name and '='.  When the field output
mode is in effect (See each item appears as a field with a `T' leading
character.  with no following key characters disables TCP/TPI information
reporting.  with following characters selects the reporting of specific
TCP/TPI information:
     f	  selects reporting of socket options,
	  states and values, and TCP flags and
	  values.
     q	  selects queue length reporting.
     s	  selects connection state reporting.
     w	  selects window size reporting.
Not all selections are enabled for some UNIX dialects.	State may be selected
for all dialects and is reported by default.  The or help output for the
option will show what selections may be used with the UNIX dialect.  When is
used to select information - i.e., it is followed by one or more selection
characters - the displaying of state is disabled by default, and it must be
explicitly selected again in the characters following (In effect, then, the
default is equivalent to For example, if queue lengths and state are desired,
use Socket options, socket states, some socket values, TCP flags and one TCP
value may be reported (when available in the UNIX dialect) in the form of the
names that commonly appear after SO_, so_, SS_, TCP_  and TF_ in the dialect's
header files - most often <sys/socket.h>, <sys/socketvar.h> and
<netinet/tcp_var.h>.  Consult those header files for the meaning of the flags,
options, states and values.  ``SO='' precedes socket options and values;
``SS='', socket states; and ``TF='', TCP flags and values.  If a flag or
option has a value, the value will follow an '=' and the name -- e.g.,
``SO=LINGER=5'', ``SO=QLIM=5'', ``TF=MSS=512''.	 The following seven values
may be reported:
     Name
     Reported  Description (Common Symbol)

     KEEPALIVE keep alive time (SO_KEEPALIVE)
     LINGER    linger time (SO_LINGER)
     MSS       maximum segment size (TCP_MAXSEG)
     PQLEN	    partial listen queue connections
     QLEN      established listen queue connections
     QLIM      established listen queue limit
     RCVBUF    receive buffer length (SO_RCVBUF)
     SNDBUF    send buffer length (SO_SNDBUF)
Details on what socket options and values, socket states, and TCP flags and
values may be displayed for particular UNIX dialects may be found in the
answer to the ``Why doesn't lsof report socket options, socket states, and TCP
flags and values for my dialect?'' and ``Why doesn't lsof report the partial
listen queue connection count for my dialect?''	 questions in the FAQ (The FAQ
section gives its location.)  On Linux this option also prints the state of
UNIX domain sockets.  produce terse output comprising only process identifiers
(without a header), so that it is easy to use programmatically. e.g.

     # reload anything using old SSL
     lsof -t /lib/*/libssl.so.* | xargs -r kill -HUP

     # get list of processes and then iterate over them (Bash only)
     mapfile -t pids < <(
	 lsof -wt /var/log/your.log
     )
     for pid in "${pids[@]}" ; do
	 your_command -p "$pid"
     done

The option implies the option.	selects the listing of files for the user
whose login names or user ID numbers are in the comma-separated set - e.g.,
``abe'', or ``548,root''.  (There should be no spaces in the set.)  Multiple
login names or user ID numbers are joined in a single ORed set before
participating in AND option selection.	If a login name or user ID is preceded
by a `^', it becomes a negation - i.e., files of processes owned by the login
name or user ID will never be listed.  A negated login name or user ID
selection is neither ANDed nor ORed with other selections; it is applied
before all other selections and absolutely excludes the listing of the files
of the process.	 For example, to direct to exclude the listing of files
belonging to root processes, specify ``-u^root'' or ``-u^0''.  selects the
listing of UNIX domain socket files.  selects the listing of version
information, including: revision number; when the binary was constructed; who
constructed the binary and where; the name of the compiler used to construct
the the version number of the compiler when readily available; the compiler
and loader flags used to construct the binary; and system information,
typically the output of option.	 directs to indicate the items it was asked to
list and failed to find - command names, file names, Internet addresses or
files, login names, NFS files, PIDs, PGIDs, and UIDs.  When other options are
ANDed to search options, or compile-time options restrict the listing of some
files, may not report that it failed to find a search item when an ANDed
option or compile-time option prevents the listing of the open file containing
the located search item.  For example, ``lsof -V -iTCP@foobar -a -d 999'' may
not report a failure to locate open files at ``TCP@foobar'' and may not list
any, if none have a file descriptor number of 999.  A similar situation arises
when HASSECURITY and HASNOSOCKSECURITY are defined at compile time and they
prevent the listing of open files.  Enables (+) or disables (-) the
suppression of warning messages.  The builder may choose to have warning
messages disabled or enabled by default.  The default warning message state is
indicated in the output of the or option.  Disabling warning messages when
they are already disabled or enabling them when already enabled is acceptable.
The option implies the option.	may accompany the and options to direct their
processing to cross over symbolic links and|or file system mount points
encountered when scanning the directory (+d) or directory tree (+D).  If is
specified by itself without a following parameter, cross-over processing of
both symbolic links and file system mount points is enabled.  Note that when
is specified without a parameter, the next argument must begin with '-' or
'+'.  The optional 'f' parameter enables file system mount point cross-over
processing; 'l', symbolic link cross-over processing.  The option may not be
supplied without also supplying a or option.  This is a dialect-specific
option.	     AIX:
This IBM AIX RISC/System 6000 option requests the reporting of executed text
file and shared library references.  because this option uses the kernel
readx() function, its use on a busy AIX system might cause an application
process to hang so completely that it can neither be killed nor stopped.  I
have never seen this happen or had a report of its happening, but I think
there is a remote possibility it could happen.	By default use of readx() is
disabled.  On AIX 5L and above may need setuid-root permission to perform the
actions this option requests.  The builder may specify that the option be
restricted to processes whose real UID is root.	 If that has been done, the
option will not appear in the or help output unless the real UID of the
process is root.  The default distribution allows any UID to specify so by
default it will appear in the help output.  When AIX readx() use is disabled,
may not be able to report information for all text and loader file references,
but it may also avoid exacerbating an AIX kernel directory search kernel
error, known as the Stale Segment ID bug.  The readx() function, used by or
any other program to access some sections of kernel virtual memory, can
trigger the Stale Segment ID bug.  It can cause the kernel's dir_search()
function to believe erroneously that part of an in-memory copy of a file
system directory has been zeroed.  Another application process, distinct from
asking the kernel to search the directory - e.g., by using can cause
dir_search() to loop forever, thus hanging the application process.  Consult
the FAQ (The FAQ section gives its location.)  and the file of the
distribution for a more complete description of the Stale Segment ID bug, its
APAR, and methods for defining readx() use when compiling     Linux:
This Linux option requests that skip the reporting of information on all open
TCP, UDP and UDPLITE IPv4 and IPv6 files.  This Linux option is most useful
when the system has an extremely large number of open TCP, UDP and UDPLITE
files, the processing of whose information in the and files would take a long
time, and whose reporting is not of interest.  Use this option with care and
only when you are sure that the information you want to display isn't
associated with open TCP, UDP or UDPLITE socket files.	    Solaris 10 and
above:
This Solaris 10 and above option requests the reporting of cached paths for
files that have been deleted - i.e., removed with or The cached path is
followed by the string `` (deleted)'' to indicate that the path by which the
file was opened has been deleted.  Because intervening changes made to the
path - i.e., renames with or - are not recorded in the cached path, what
reports is only the path by which the file was opened, not its possibly
different final path.  specifies how Solaris 10 and higher zone information is
to be handled.	Without a following argument - e.g., NO the option specifies
that zone names are to be listed in the ZONE output column.  The option may be
followed by a zone name, That causes lsof to list only open files for
processes in that zone.	 Multiple option and argument pairs may be specified
to form a list of named zones.	Any open file of any process in any of the
zones will be listed, subject to other conditions specified by other options
and arguments.	specifies how SELinux security contexts are to be handled.  It
and 'Z' field output character support are inhibited when SELinux is disabled
in the running Linux kernel.  See for more information on the 'Z' field output
character.  Without a following argument - e.g., NO the option specifies that
security contexts are to be listed in the SECURITY-CONTEXT output column.  The
option may be followed by a wildcard security context name, That causes lsof
to list only open files for processes in that security context.	 Multiple
option and argument pairs may be specified to form a list of security
contexts.  Any open file of any process in any of the security contexts will
be listed, subject to other conditions specified by other options and
arguments.  Note that can be A:B:C or *:B:C or A:B:* or *:*:C to match against
the A:B:C context.  The double minus sign option is a marker that signals the
end of the keyed options.  It may be used, for example, when the first file
name begins with a minus sign.	It may also be used when the absence of a
value for the last keyed option must be signified by the presence of a minus
sign in the following option and before the start of the file names.  These
are path names of specific files to list.  Symbolic links are resolved before
use.  The first name may be separated from the preceding options with the
``--'' option.	If a is the mounted-on directory of a file system or the
device of the file system, will list all the files open on the file system.
To be considered a file system, the must match a mounted-on directory name in
output, or match the name of a block device associated with a mounted-on
directory name.	 The option may be used to force to consider a a file system
identifier (+f) or a simple file (-f).	If is a path to a directory that is
not the mounted-on directory name of a file system, it is treated just as a
regular file is treated - i.e., its listing is restricted to processes that
have it open as a file or as a process-specific directory, such as the root or
current working directory.  To request that look for open files inside a
directory name, use the and options.  If a is the base name of a family of
multiplexed files - e.g, AIX's will list all the associated multiplexed files
on the device that are open - e.g., etc.  If a is a UNIX domain socket name,
will usually search for it by the characters of the name alone - exactly as it
is specified and is recorded in the kernel socket structure.  (See the next
paragraph for an exception to that rule for Linux.)  Specifying a relative
path - e.g., - in place of the file's absolute path - e.g., - won't work
because must match the characters you specify with what it finds in the kernel
UNIX domain socket structures.	If a is a Linux UNIX domain socket name, in
one case is able to search for it by its device and inode number, allowing to
be a relative path.  The case requires that the absolute path -- i.e., one
beginning with a slash ('/') be used by the process that created the socket,
and hence be stored in the file; and it requires that be able to obtain the
device and node numbers of both the absolute path in and via successful system
calls.	When those conditions are met, will be able to search for the UNIX
domain socket when some path to it is is specified in Thus, for example, if
the path is and an search is initiated when the working directory is then
could be If a is none of the above, will list any open files whose device and
inode match that of the specified path If you have also specified the option,
the only you may safely specify are file systems for which your mount table
supplies alternate device numbers.  See the and sections for more information.
Multiple file names are joined in a single ORed set before participating in
AND option selection.  supports the recognition of AFS files for these
dialects (and AFS versions):
     AIX 4.1.4 (AFS 3.4a)
     HP-UX 9.0.5 (AFS 3.4a)
     Linux 1.2.13 (AFS 3.3)
     Solaris 2.[56] (AFS 3.4a)
It may recognize AFS files on other versions of these dialects, but has not
been tested there.  Depending on how AFS is implemented, may recognize AFS
files in other dialects, or may have difficulties recognizing AFS files in the
supported dialects.  may have trouble identifying all aspects of AFS files in
supported dialects when AFS kernel support is implemented via dynamic modules
whose addresses do not appear in the kernel's variable name list.  In that
case, may have to guess at the identity of AFS files, and might not be able to
obtain volume information from the kernel that is needed for calculating AFS
volume node numbers.  When can't compute volume node numbers, it reports blank
in the NODE column.  The option is available in some dialect implementations
of for specifying the name list file where dynamic module kernel addresses may
be found.  When this option is available, it will be listed in the help
output, presented in response to the or See the FAQ (The FAQ section gives its
location.)  for more information about dynamic modules, their symbols, and how
they affect options.  Because AFS path lookups don't seem to participate in
the kernel's name cache operations, can't identify path name components for
AFS files.  has three features that may cause security concerns.  First, its
default compilation mode allows anyone to list all open files with it.
Second, by default it creates a user-readable and user-writable device cache
file in the home directory of the real user ID that executes (The
list-all-open-files and device cache features may be disabled when is
compiled.)  Third, its and options name alternate kernel name list or memory
files.	Restricting the listing of all open files is controlled by the
compile-time HASSECURITY and HASNOSOCKSECURITY options.	 When HASSECURITY is
defined, will allow only the root user to list all open files.	The non-root
user may list only open files of processes with the same user IDentification
number as the real user ID number of the process (the one that its user logged
on with).  However, if HASSECURITY and HASNOSOCKSECURITY are both defined,
anyone may list open socket files, provided they are selected with the option.
When HASSECURITY is not defined, anyone may list all open files.  Help output,
presented in response to the or option, gives the status of the HASSECURITY
and HASNOSOCKSECURITY definitions.  See the section of the file of the
distribution for information on building with the HASSECURITY and
HASNOSOCKSECURITY options enabled.  Creation and use of a user-readable and
user-writable device cache file is controlled by the compile-time HASDCACHE
option.	 See the section and the sections that follow it for details on how
its path is formed.  For security considerations it is important to note that
in the default distribution, if the real user ID under which is executed is
root, the device cache file will be written in root's home directory - e.g.,
or When HASDCACHE is not defined, does not write or attempt to read a device
cache file.  When HASDCACHE is defined, the help output, presented in response
to the or options, will provide device cache file handling information.	 When
HASDCACHE is not defined, the or output will have no option description.
Before you decide to disable the device cache file feature - enabling it
improves the performance of by reducing the startup overhead of examining all
the nodes in (or - read the discussion of it in the file of the distribution
and the FAQ (The FAQ section gives its location.)  WHEN IN DOUBT, YOU CAN
TEMPORARILY DISABLE THE USE OF THE DEVICE CACHE FILE WITH THE OPTION.  When
user declares alternate kernel name list or memory files with the and options,
checks the user's authority to read them with This is intended to prevent
whatever special power modes might confer on it from letting it read files not
normally accessible via the authority of the real user ID.  This section
describes the information lists for each open file.  See the section for
additional information on output that can be processed by another program.
only outputs printable (declared so by 8 bit characters.  Non-printable
characters are printed in one of three forms: the C ``\[bfrnt]'' form; the
control character `^' form (e.g., ``^@''); or hexadecimal leading ``\x'' form
(e.g., ``\xab'').  Space is non-printable in the COMMAND column (``\x20'') and
printable elsewhere.  For some dialects - if HASSETLOCALE is defined in the
dialect's machine.h header file - will print the extended 8 bit characters of
a language locale.  The process must be supplied a language locale environment
variable (e.g., LANG) whose value represents a known language locale in which
the extended characters are considered printable by Otherwise considers the
extended characters non-printable and prints them according to its rules for
non-printable characters, stated above.	 Consult your dialect's man page for
the names of other environment variables that may be used in place of LANG -
e.g., LC_ALL, LC_CTYPE, etc.  language locale support for a dialect also
covers wide characters - e.g., UTF-8 - when HASSETLOCALE and HASWIDECHAR are
defined in the dialect's machine.h header file, and when a suitable language
locale has been defined in the appropriate environment variable for the
process.  Wide characters are printable under those conditions if reports them
to be.	If HASSETLOCALE, HASWIDECHAR and a suitable language locale aren't
defined, or if reports wide characters that aren't printable, considers the
wide characters non-printable and prints each of their 8 bits according to its
rules for non-printable characters, stated above.  Consult the answers to the
"Language locale support" questions in the lsof FAQ (The FAQ section gives its
location.) for more information.  dynamically sizes the output columns each
time it runs, guaranteeing that each column is a minimum size.	It also
guarantees that each column is separated from its predecessor by at least one
space.	COMMAND contains the first nine characters of the name of the UNIX
command associated with the process.  If a non-zero value is specified to the
option, the column contains the first characters of the name of the UNIX
command associated with the process up to the limit of characters supplied to
by the UNIX dialect.  (See the description of the command or the FAQ for more
information.  The FAQ section gives its location.)  If is less than the length
of the column title, ``COMMAND'', it will be raised to that length.  If a zero
value is specified to the option, the column contains all the characters of
the name of the UNIX command associated with the process.  All command name
characters maintained by the kernel in its structures are displayed in field
output when the command name descriptor (`c') is specified.  See the section
for information on selecting field output and the associated command name
descriptor.  PID is the Process IDentification number of the process.  TID is
the task (thread) IDentification number, if task (thread) reporting is
supported by the dialect and a task (thread) is being listed.  (If help output
- i.e., the output of the or options - shows this option, then task (thread)
reporting is supported by the dialect.)	 A blank TID column in Linux indicates
a process - i.e., a non-task.  TASKCMD is the task command name.  Generally
this will be the same as the process named in the COMMAND column, but some
task implementations (e.g., Linux) permit a task to change its command name.
The TASKCMD column width is subject to the same size limitation as the COMMAND
column.	 ZONE is the Solaris 10 and higher zone name.  This column must be
selected with the option.  SECURITY-CONTEXT is the SELinux security context.
This column must be selected with the option.  Note that the option is
inhibited when SELinux is disabled in the running Linux kernel.	 PPID is the
Parent Process IDentification number of the process.  It is only displayed
when the option has been specified.  PGID is the process group IDentification
number associated with the process.  It is only displayed when the option has
been specified.	 USER is the user ID number or login name of the user to whom
the process belongs, usually the same as reported by However, on Linux USER is
the user ID number or login that owns the directory in /proc where finds
information about the process.	Usually that is the same value reported by but
may differ when the process has changed its effective user ID.	(See the
option description for information on when a user ID number or login name is
displayed.)  FD is the File Descriptor number of the file or:
     cwd  current working directory;
     Lnn  library references (AIX);
     err  FD information error (see NAME column);
     jld  jail directory (FreeBSD);
     ltx  shared library text (code and data);
     Mxx  hex memory-mapped type number xx.
     m86  DOS Merge mapped file;
     mem  memory-mapped file;
     mmap memory-mapped device;
     pd	  parent directory;
     rtd  root directory;
     tr	  kernel trace file (OpenBSD);
     txt  program text (code and data);
     v86  VP/ix mapped file;
FD is followed by one of these characters, describing the mode under which the
file is open:  r for read access;
     w for write access;
     u for read and write access;
     space if mode unknown and no lock
	  character follows;
     `-' if mode unknown and lock
	  character follows.  The mode character is followed by one of these
lock characters, describing the type of lock applied to the file:     N for a
Solaris NFS lock of unknown type;
     r for read lock on part of the file;
     R for a read lock on the entire file;
     w for a write lock on part of the file;
     W for a write lock on the entire file;
     u for a read and write lock of any length;
     U for a lock of unknown type;
     x for an SCO OpenServer Xenix lock on part	  of the file;
     X for an SCO OpenServer Xenix lock on the entire file;
     space if there is no lock.	 See the section for more information on the
lock information character.  The FD column contents constitutes a single field
for parsing in post-processing scripts. FD numbers larger than 9999 are
abbreviated to a ``*'' followed by the last three digits. E.g., 10001 appears
as ``*001'' TYPE is the type of the node associated with the file - e.g.,
GDIR, GREG, VDIR, VREG, etc.  or ``IPv4'' for an IPv4 socket; or ``IPv6'' for
an open IPv6 network file - even if its address is IPv4, mapped in an IPv6
address; or ``ax25'' for a Linux AX.25 socket; or ``inet'' for an Internet
domain socket; or ``lla'' for a HP-UX link level access file; or ``rte'' for
an AF_ROUTE socket; or ``sock'' for a socket of unknown domain; or ``unix''
for a UNIX domain socket; or ``x.25'' for an HP-UX x.25 socket; or ``BLK'' for
a block special file; or ``CHR'' for a character special file; or ``DEL'' for
a Linux map file that has been deleted; or ``DIR'' for a directory; or
``DOOR'' for a VDOOR file; or ``FIFO'' for a FIFO special file; or ``KQUEUE''
for a BSD style kernel event queue file; or ``LINK'' for a symbolic link file;
or ``MPB'' for a multiplexed block file; or ``MPC'' for a multiplexed
character file; or ``NOFD'' for a Linux /proc/<PID>/fd directory that can't be
opened -- the directory path appears in the NAME column, followed by an error
message; or ``PAS'' for a file; or ``PAXV'' for a file; or ``PCRE'' for a
file; or ``PCTL'' for a control file; or ``PCUR'' for the current process; or
``PCWD'' for a current working directory; or ``PDIR'' for a directory; or
``PETY'' for a executable type (etype); or ``PFD'' for a file descriptor; or
``PFDR'' for a file descriptor directory; or ``PFIL'' for an executable file;
or ``PFPR'' for a FP register set; or ``PGD'' for a file; or ``PGID'' for a
group notifier file; or ``PIPE'' for pipes; or ``PLC'' for a file; or ``PLDR''
for a directory; or ``PLDT'' for a file; or ``PLPI'' for a file; or ``PLST''
for a file; or ``PLU'' for a file; or ``PLWG'' for a file; or ``PLWI'' for a
file; or ``PLWS'' for a file; or ``PLWU'' for a file; or ``PLWX'' for a file;
or ``PMAP'' for a map file (map); or ``PMEM'' for a memory image file; or
``PNTF'' for a process notifier file; or ``POBJ'' for a file; or ``PODR'' for
a directory; or ``POLP'' for an old format light weight process file; or
``POPF'' for an old format PID file; or ``POPG'' for an old format page data
file; or ``PORT'' for a SYSV named pipe; or ``PREG'' for a register file; or
``PRMP'' for a file; or ``PRTD'' for a root directory; or ``PSGA'' for a file;
or ``PSIN'' for a file; or ``PSTA'' for a status file; or ``PSXMQ'' for a
POSIX message queue file; or ``PSXSEM'' for a POSIX semaphore file; or
``PSXSHM'' for a POSIX shared memory file; or ``PTS'' for a file; or ``PUSG''
for a file; or ``PW'' for a file; or ``PXMP'' for a file; or ``REG'' for a
regular file; or ``SMT'' for a shared memory transport file; or ``STSO'' for a
stream socket; or ``UNNM'' for an unnamed type file; or ``XNAM'' for an
OpenServer Xenix special file of unknown type; or ``XSEM'' for an OpenServer
Xenix semaphore file; or ``XSD'' for an OpenServer Xenix shared data file; or
the four type number octets if the corresponding name isn't known.  FILE-ADDR
contains the kernel file structure address when has been specified to FCT
contains the file reference count from the kernel file structure when has been
specified to FILE-FLAG when or has been specified to this field contains the
contents of the f_flag[s] member of the kernel file structure and the kernel's
per-process open file flags (if available); `G' causes them to be displayed in
hexadecimal; `g', as short-hand names; two lists may be displayed with entries
separated by commas, the lists separated by a semicolon (`;'); the first list
may contain short-hand names for f_flag[s] values from the following table:
     AIO       asynchronous I/O (e.g., FAIO)
     AP	       append
     ASYN      asynchronous I/O (e.g., FASYNC)
     BAS       block, test, and set in use
     BKIU      block if in use
     BL	       use block offsets
     BSK       block seek
     CA	       copy avoid
     CIO       concurrent I/O
     CLON      clone
     CLRD      CL read
     CR	       create
     DF	       defer
     DFI       defer IND
     DFLU      data flush
     DIR       direct
     DLY       delay
     DOCL      do clone
     DSYN      data-only integrity
     DTY       must be a directory
     EVO       event only
     EX	       open for exec
     EXCL      exclusive open
     FSYN      synchronous writes
     GCDF      defer during unp_gc() (AIX)
     GCMK      mark during unp_gc() (AIX)
     GTTY      accessed via /dev/tty
     HUP       HUP in progress
     KERN      kernel
     KIOC      kernel-issued ioctl
     LCK       has lock
     LG	       large file
     MBLK      stream message block
     MK	       mark
     MNT       mount
     MSYN      multiplex synchronization
     NATM      don't update atime
     NB	       non-blocking I/O
     NBDR      no BDRM check
     NBIO      SYSV non-blocking I/O
     NBF       n-buffering in effect
     NC	       no cache
     ND	       no delay
     NDSY      no data synchronization
     NET       network
     NFLK      don't follow links
     NMFS      NM file system
     NOTO      disable background stop
     NSH       no share
     NTTY      no controlling TTY
     OLRM      OLR mirror
     PAIO      POSIX asynchronous I/O
     PATH      path
     PP	       POSIX pipe
     R	       read
     RC	       file and record locking cache
     REV       revoked
     RSH       shared read
     RSYN      read synchronization
     RW	       read and write access
     SL	       shared lock
     SNAP      cooked snapshot
     SOCK      socket
     SQSH      Sequent shared set on open
     SQSV      Sequent SVM set on open
     SQR       Sequent set repair on open
     SQS1      Sequent full shared open
     SQS2      Sequent partial shared open
     STPI      stop I/O
     SWR       synchronous read
     SYN       file integrity while writing
     TCPM      avoid TCP collision
     TMPF      temporary file
     TR	       truncate
     W	       write
     WKUP      parallel I/O synchronization
     WTG       parallel I/O synchronization
     VH	       vhangup pending
     VTXT      virtual text
     XL	       exclusive lock
this list of names was derived from F* #define's in dialect header files
<fcntl.h>, <linux</fs.h>, <sys/fcntl.c>, <sys/fcntlcom.h>, and <sys/file.h>;
see the lsof.h header file for a list showing the correspondence between the
above short-hand names and the header file definitions; the second list (after
the semicolon) may contain short-hand names for kernel per-process open file
flags from this table:
     ALLC      allocated
     BR	       the file has been read
     BHUP      activity stopped by SIGHUP
     BW	       the file has been written
     CLSG      closing
     CX	       close-on-exec (see fcntl(F_SETFD))
     LCK       lock was applied
     MP	       memory-mapped
     OPIP      open pending - in progress
     RSVW      reserved wait
     SHMT      UF_FSHMAT set (AIX)
     USE       in use (multi-threaded)
NODE-ID (or INODE-ADDR for some dialects) contains a unique identifier for the
file node (usually the kernel vnode or inode address, but also occasionally a
concatenation of device and node number) when has been specified to DEVICE
contains the device numbers, separated by commas, for a character special,
block special, regular, directory or NFS file; or ``memory'' for a memory file
system node under Tru64 UNIX; or the address of the private data area of a
Solaris socket stream; or a kernel reference address that identifies the file
(The kernel reference address may be used for FIFO's, for example.); or the
base address or device name of a Linux AX.25 socket device.  Usually only the
lower thirty two bits of Tru64 UNIX kernel addresses are displayed.  SIZE,
SIZE/OFF, or OFFSET is the size of the file or the file offset in bytes.  A
value is displayed in this column only if it is available.  displays whatever
value - size or offset - is appropriate for the type of the file and the
version of On some UNIX dialects can't obtain accurate or consistent file
offset information from its kernel data sources, sometimes just for particular
kinds of files (e.g., socket files.)  In other cases, files don't have true
sizes - e.g., sockets, FIFOs, pipes - so displays for their sizes the content
amounts it finds in their kernel buffer descriptors (e.g., socket buffer size
counts or TCP/IP window sizes.)	 Consult the FAQ (The FAQ section gives its
location.)  for more information.  The file size is displayed in decimal; the
offset is normally displayed in decimal with a leading ``0t'' if it contains 8
digits or less; in hexadecimal with a leading ``0x'' if it is longer than 8
digits.	 (Consult the option description for information on when 8 might
default to some other value.)  Thus the leading ``0t'' and ``0x'' identify an
offset when the column may contain both a size and an offset (i.e., its title
is SIZE/OFF).  If the option is specified, always displays the file offset (or
nothing if no offset is available) and labels the column OFFSET.  The offset
always begins with ``0t'' or ``0x'' as described above.	 The user can control
the switch from ``0t'' to ``0x'' with the option.  Consult its description for
more information.  If the option is specified, always displays the file size
(or nothing if no size is available) and labels the column SIZE.  The and
options are mutually exclusive; they can't both be specified.  If the option
is specified, displays file size in human readable form.  For files that don't
have a fixed size - e.g., don't reside on a disk device - will display
appropriate information about the current size or position of the file if it
is available in the kernel structures that define the file.  NLINK contains
the file link count when has been specified; NODE is the node number of a
local file; or the inode number of an NFS file in the server host; or the
Internet protocol type - e.g, ``TCP''; or ``STR'' for a stream; or ``CCITT''
for an HP-UX x.25 socket; or the IRQ or inode number of a Linux AX.25 socket
device.	 NAME is the name of the mount point and file system on which the file
resides; or the name of a file specified in the option (after any symbolic
links have been resolved); or the name of a character special or block special
device; or the local and remote Internet addresses of a network file; the
local host name or IP number is followed by a colon (':'), the port, ``->'',
and the two-part remote address; IP addresses may be reported as numbers or
names, depending on the and options; colon-separated IPv6 numbers are enclosed
in square brackets; IPv4 INADDR_ANY and IPv6 IN6_IS_ADDR_UNSPECIFIED
addresses, and zero port numbers are represented by an asterisk ('*'); a UDP
destination address may be followed by the amount of time elapsed since the
last packet was sent to the destination; TCP, UDP and UDPLITE remote addresses
may be followed by TCP/TPI information in parentheses - state (e.g.,
``(ESTABLISHED)'', ``(Unbound)''), queue sizes, and window sizes (not all
dialects) - in a fashion similar to what reports; see the option description
or the description of the TCP/TPI field in for more information on state,
queue size, and window size; or the address or name of a UNIX domain socket,
possibly including a stream clone device name, a file system object's path
name, local and foreign kernel addresses, socket pair information, and a bound
vnode address; or the local and remote mount point names of an NFS file; or
``STR'', followed by the stream name; or a stream character device name,
followed by ``->'' and the stream name or a list of stream module names,
separated by ``->''; or ``STR:'' followed by the SCO OpenServer stream device
and module names, separated by ``->''; or system directory name, `` -- '', and
as many components of the path name as can find in the kernel's name cache for
selected dialects (See the section for more information.); or ``PIPE->'',
followed by a Solaris kernel pipe destination address; or ``COMMON:'',
followed by the vnode device information structure's device name, for a
Solaris common vnode; or the address family, followed by a slash (`/'),
followed by fourteen comma-separated bytes of a non-Internet raw socket
address; or the HP-UX x.25 local address, followed by the virtual connection
number (if any), followed by the remote address (if any); or ``(dead)'' for
disassociated Tru64 UNIX files - typically terminal files that have been
flagged with the TIOCNOTTY ioctl and closed by daemons; or ``rd=<offset>'' and
``wr=<offset>'' for the values of the read and write offsets of a FIFO; or
``clone n:/dev/event'' for SCO OpenServer file clones of the device, where is
the minor device number of the file; or ``(socketpair: n)'' for a Solaris 2.6,
8, 9  or 10 UNIX domain socket, created by the network function; or ``no PCB''
for socket files that do not have a protocol block associated with them,
optionally followed by ``, CANTSENDMORE'' if sending on the socket has been
disabled, or ``, CANTRCVMORE'' if receiving on the socket has been disabled
(e.g., by the function); or the local and remote addresses of a Linux IPX
socket file in the form <net>:[<node>:]<port>, followed in parentheses by the
transmit and receive queue sizes, and the connection state; or ``dgram'' or
``stream'' for the type UnixWare 7.1.1 and above in-kernel UNIX domain
sockets, followed by a colon (':') and the local path name when available,
followed by ``->'' and the remote path name or kernel socket address in
hexadecimal when available; or the association value, association index,
endpoint value, local address, local port, remote address and remote port for
Linux SCTP sockets; or ``protocol: '' followed by the Linux socket's protocol
attribute.  For dialects that support a ``namefs'' file system, allowing one
file to be attached to another with will add
``(FA:<address1><direction><address2>)'' to the NAME column.  <address1> and
<address2> are hexadecimal vnode addresses.  <direction> will be ``<-'' if
<address2> has been fattach'ed to this vnode whose address is <address1>; and
``->'' if <address1>, the vnode address of this vnode, has been fattach'ed to
<address2>.  <address1> may be omitted if it already appears in the DEVICE
column.	 Lsof may add two parenthetical notes to the NAME column for open
Solaris 10 files: ``(?)'' if considers the path name of questionable accuracy;
and ``(deleted)'' if the option has been specified and detects the open file's
path name has been deleted.  Consult the FAQ (The FAQ section gives its
location.)  for more information on these NAME column additions.  can't
adequately report the wide variety of UNIX dialect file locks in a single
character.  What it reports in a single character is a compromise between the
information it finds in the kernel and the limitations of the reporting
format.	 Moreover, when a process holds several byte level locks on a file,
only reports the status of the first lock it encounters.  If it is a byte
level lock, then the lock character will be reported in lower case - i.e.,
`r', `w', or `x' - rather than the upper case equivalent reported for a full
file lock.  Generally can only report on locks held by local processes on
local files.  When a local process sets a lock on a remotely mounted (e.g.,
NFS) file, the remote server host usually records the lock state.  One
exception is Solaris - at some patch levels of 2.3, and in all versions above
2.4, the Solaris kernel records information on remote locks in local
structures.  has trouble reporting locks for some UNIX dialects.  Consult the
section of this manual page or the FAQ (The FAQ section gives its location.)
for more information.  When the option is specified, produces output that is
suitable for processing by another program - e.g, an or script, or a C
program.  Each unit of information is output in a field that is identified
with a leading character and terminated by a NL (012) (or a NUL (000) if the 0
(zero) field identifier character is specified.)  The data of the field
follows immediately after the field identification character and extends to
the field terminator.  It is possible to think of field output as process and
file sets.  A process set begins with a field whose identifier is `p' (for
process IDentifier (PID)).  It extends to the beginning of the next PID field
or the beginning of the first file set of the process, whichever comes first.
Included in the process set are fields that identify the command, the process
group IDentification (PGID) number, the task (thread) ID (TID), and the user
ID (UID) number or login name.	A file set begins with a field whose
identifier is `f' (for file descriptor).  It is followed by lines that
describe the file's access mode, lock state, type, device, size, offset,
inode, protocol, name and stream module names.	It extends to the beginning of
the next file or process set, whichever comes first.  When the NUL (000) field
terminator has been selected with the 0 (zero) field identifier character,
ends each process and file set with a NL (012) character.  always produces one
field, the PID (`p') field.  In repeat mode, the marker (`m') is also
produced.  All other fields may be declared optionally in the field identifier
character list that follows the option.	 When a field selection character
identifies an item does not normally list - e.g., PPID, selected with
specification of the field character - e.g., ``-FR'' - also selects the
listing of the item.  version from 4.88 to 4.93.2 always produced one more
field, the file descriptor (`f') field. However, in this version doesn't
produce it. This change is for supporting the use case that a user needs only
the PID field, and doesn't need the file descriptor field. Specify `f'
explicitly if you need the field.  It is entirely possible to select a set of
fields that cannot easily be parsed - e.g., if the field descriptor field is
not selected, it may be difficult to identify file sets.  To help you avoid
this difficulty, supports the option; it selects the output of all fields with
NL terminators (the option pair selects the output of all fields with NUL
terminators).  For compatibility reasons neither nor select the raw device
field.	These are the fields that will produce.	 The single character listed
first is the field identifier.
     a	  file access mode
     c	  process command name (all characters from proc or
	  user structure)
     C	  file structure share count
     d	  file's device character code
     D	  file's major/minor device number (0x<hexadecimal>)
     f	  file descriptor
     F	  file structure address (0x<hexadecimal>)
     G	  file flaGs (0x<hexadecimal>; names if +fg follows)
     g	  process group ID
     i	  file's inode number
     K	  tasK ID
     k	  link count
     l	  file's lock status
     L	  process login name
     m	  marker between repeated output (always selected in repeat mode)
     M	  the task comMand name
     n	  file name, comment, Internet address
     N	  node identifier (ox<hexadecimal>
     o	  file's offset (0t<decimal> or 0x<hexadecimal>, see -o o)
     p	  process ID (always selected)
     P	  protocol name
     r	  raw device number (0x<hexadecimal>)
     R	  parent process ID
     s	  file's size (decimal)
     S	  file's stream identification
     t	  file's type
     T	  TCP/TPI information, identified by prefixes (the
	  `=' is part of the prefix):
	      QR=<read queue size>
	      QS=<send queue size>
	      SO=<socket options and values> (not all dialects)
	      SS=<socket states> (not all dialects)
	      ST=<connection state>
	      TF=<TCP flags and values> (not all dialects)
	      WR=<window read size>  (not all dialects)
	      WW=<window write size>  (not all dialects)
	  (TCP/TPI information isn't reported for all supported
	    UNIX dialects. The -h or -? help output for the
	    -T option will show what TCP/TPI reporting can be
	    requested.)
     u	  process user ID
     z	  Solaris 10 and higher zone name
     Z	  SELinux security context (inhibited when SELinux is disabled)
     0	  use NUL field terminator character in place of NL
     1-9  dialect-specific field identifiers (The output
	  of -F? identifies the information to be found
	  in dialect-specific fields.)
You can get on-line help information on these characters and their
descriptions by specifying the option pair.  (Escape the `?' character as your
shell requires.)  Additional information on field content can be found in the
section.  As an example, ``-F pcfn'' will select the process ID (`p'), command
name (`c'), file descriptor (`f') and file name (`n') fields with an NL field
terminator character; ``-F pcfn0'' selects the same output with a NUL (000)
field terminator character.  doesn't produce all fields for every process or
file set, only those that are available.  Some fields are mutually exclusive:
file device characters and file major/minor device numbers; file inode number
and protocol name; file name and stream identification; file size and offset.
One or the other member of these mutually exclusive sets will appear in field
output, but not both.  Normally ends each field with a NL (012) character.
The 0 (zero) field identifier character may be specified to change the field
terminator character to a NUL (000).  A NUL terminator may be easier to
process with for example, or with programs whose quoting mechanisms may not
easily cope with the range of characters in the field output.  When the NUL
field terminator is in use, ends each process and file set with a NL (012).
Three aids to producing programs that can process field output are included in
the distribution.  The first is a C header file, that contains symbols for the
field identification characters, indexes for storing them in a table, and
explanation strings that may be compiled into programs.	 uses this header
file.  The second aid is a set of sample scripts that process field output,
written in 4, and 5.  They're located in the subdirectory of the distribution.
The third aid is the C library used for the test suite.	 The test suite is
written in C and uses field output to validate the correct operation of The
library can be found in the file of the distribution.  The library uses the
first aid, the header file.  can be blocked by some kernel functions that it
uses - and These functions are stalled in the kernel, for example, when the
hosts where mounted NFS file systems reside become inaccessible.  attempts to
break these blocks with timers and child processes, but the techniques are not
wholly reliable.  When does manage to break a block, it will report the break
with an error message.	The messages may be suppressed with the and options.
The default timeout value may be displayed with the or option, and it may be
changed with the option.  The minimum for is two seconds, but you should avoid
small values, since slow system responsiveness can cause short timeouts to
expire unexpectedly and perhaps stop before it can produce any output.	When
has to break a block during its access of mounted file system information, it
normally continues, although with less information available to display about
open files.  can also be directed to avoid the protection of timers and child
processes when using the kernel functions that might block by specifying the
option.	 While this will allow to start up with less overhead, it exposes
completely to the kernel situations that might block it.  Use this option
cautiously.  You can use the option to tell to avoid using kernel functions
that would block.  Some cautions apply.	 First, using this option usually
requires that your system supply alternate device numbers in place of the
device numbers that would normally obtain with the and kernel functions.  See
the section for more information on alternate device numbers.  Second, you
can't specify for to locate unless they're file system names.  This is because
needs to know the device and inode numbers of files listed with in the
options, and the option prevents from obtaining them.  Moreover, since only
has device numbers for the file systems that have alternates, its ability to
locate files on file systems depends completely on the availability and
accuracy of the alternates.  If no alternates are available, or if they're
incorrect, won't be able to locate files on the named file systems.  Third, if
the names of your file system directories that obtains from your system's
mount table are symbolic links, won't be able to resolve the links.  This is
because the option causes to avoid the kernel function it uses to resolve
symbolic links.	 Finally, using the option causes to issue warning messages
when it needs to use the kernel functions that the option directs it to avoid.
You can suppress these messages by specifying the option, but if you do, you
won't see the alternate device numbers reported in the warning messages.  On
some dialects, when has to break a block because it can't get information
about a mounted file system via the and kernel functions, or because you
specified the option, can obtain some of the information it needs - the device
number and possibly the file system type - from the system mount table.	 When
that is possible, will report the device number it obtained.  (You can
suppress the report by specifying the option.)	You can assist this process if
your mount table is supported with an or file that contains an options field
by adding a ``dev=xxxx'' field for mount points that do not have one in their
options strings.  Note: you must be able to edit the file - i.e., some mount
tables like recent Solaris /etc/mnttab or Linux /proc/mounts are read-only and
can't be modified.  You may also be able to supply device numbers using the
and options, provided they are supported by your dialect.  Check the output of
or options to see if the and options are available.  The ``xxxx'' portion of
the field is the hexadecimal value of the file system's device number.
(Consult the field of the output of the and functions for the appropriate
values for your file systems.)	Here's an example from a Sun Solaris 2.6 for a
file system remotely mounted via NFS:
     nfs  ignore,noquota,dev=2a40001
There's an advantage to having ``dev=xxxx'' entries in your mount table file,
especially for file systems that are mounted from remote NFS servers.  When a
remote server crashes and you want to identify its users by running on one of
its clients, probably won't be able to get output from the and functions for
the file system.  If it can obtain the file system's device number from the
mount table, it will be able to display the files open on the crashed NFS
server.	 Some dialects that do not use an ASCII or file for the mount table
may still provide an alternative device number in their internal mount tables.
This includes AIX, Apple Darwin, FreeBSD, NetBSD, OpenBSD, and Tru64 UNIX.
knows how to obtain the alternative device number for these dialects and uses
it when its attempt to or the file system is blocked.  If you're not sure your
dialect supplies alternate device numbers for file systems from its mount
table, use this incantation to see if it reports any alternate device numbers:
lsof -b Look for standard error file warning messages that begin ``assuming
"dev=xxxx" from ...''.	is able to examine the kernel's name cache or use
other kernel facilities (e.g., the ADVFS 4.x tag_to_path() function under
Tru64 UNIX) on some dialects for most file system types, excluding AFS, and
extract recently used path name components from it.  (AFS file system path
lookups don't use the kernel's name cache; some Solaris VxFS file system
operations apparently don't use it, either.)  reports the complete paths it
finds in the NAME column.  If can't report all components in a path, it
reports in the NAME column the file system name, followed by a space, two `-'
characters, another space, and the name components it has located, separated
by the `/' character.  When is run in repeat mode - i.e., with the option
specified - the extent to which it can report path name components for the
same file may vary from cycle to cycle.	 That's because other running
processes can cause the kernel to remove entries from its name cache and
replace them with others.  use of the kernel name cache to identify the paths
of files can lead it to report incorrect components under some circumstances.
This can happen when the kernel name cache uses device and node number as a
key (e.g., SCO OpenServer) and a key on a rapidly changing file system is
reused.	 If the UNIX dialect's kernel doesn't purge the name cache entry for a
file when it is unlinked, may find a reference to the wrong entry in the
cache.	The FAQ (The FAQ section gives its location.)  has more information on
this situation.	 can report path name components for these dialects:
     FreeBSD
     HP-UX
     Linux
     NetBSD
     OpenBSD
     SCO OpenServer
     SCO|Caldera UnixWare
     Solaris
     Tru64 UNIX
can't report path name components for these dialects:
     AIX
If you want to know why can't report path name components for some dialects,
see the FAQ (The FAQ section gives its location.)  Examining all members of
the (or node tree with functions can be time consuming.	 What's more, the
information that needs - device number, inode number, and path - rarely
changes.  Consequently, normally maintains an ASCII text file of cached (or
information (exception: the /proc-based Linux where it's not needed.)  The
local system administrator who builds can control the way the device cache
file path is formed, selecting from these options:
     Path from the -D option;
     Path from an environment variable;
     System-wide path;
     Personal path (the default);
     Personal path, modified by an environment variable.
Consult the output of the or help options for the current state of device
cache support.	The help output lists the default read-mode device cache file
path that is in effect for the current invocation of The option output lists
the read-only and write device cache file paths, the names of any applicable
environment variables, and the personal device cache path format.  can detect
that the current device cache file has been accidentally or maliciously
modified by integrity checks, including the computation and verification of a
sixteen bit Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) sum on the file's contents.  When
senses something wrong with the file, it issues a warning and attempts to
remove the current cache file and create a new copy, but only to a path that
the process can legitimately write.  The path from which a process may attempt
to read a device cache file may not be the same as the path to which it can
legitimately write.  Thus when senses that it needs to update the device cache
file, it may choose a different path for writing it from the path from which
it read an incorrect or outdated version.  If available, the option will
inhibit the writing of a new device cache file.	 (It's always available when
specified without a path name argument.)  When a new device is added to the
system, the device cache file may need to be recreated.	 Since compares the
mtime of the device cache file with the mtime and ctime of the (or directory,
it usually detects that a new device has been added; in that case issues a
warning message and attempts to rebuild the device cache file.	Whenever
writes a device cache file, it sets its ownership to the real UID of the
executing process, and its permission modes to 0600, this restricting its
reading and writing to the file's owner.  Two permissions of the executable
affect its ability to access device cache files.  The permissions are set by
the local system administrator when is installed.  The first and rarer
permission is setuid-root.  It comes into effect when is executed; its
effective UID is then root, while its real (i.e., that of the logged-on user)
UID is not.  The distribution recommends that versions for these dialects run
setuid-root.
     HP-UX 11.11 and 11.23
     Linux
The second and more common permission is setgid.  It comes into effect when
the effective group IDentification number (GID) of the process is set to one
that can access kernel memory devices - e.g., ``kmem'', ``sys'', or
``system''.  An process that has setgid permission usually surrenders the
permission after it has accessed the kernel memory devices.  When it does
that, can allow more liberal device cache path formations.  The distribution
recommends that versions for these dialects run setgid and be allowed to
surrender setgid permission.
     AIX 5.[12] and 5.3-ML1
     Apple Darwin 7.x Power Macintosh systems
     FreeBSD 4.x, 4.1x, 5.x and [6789].x for x86-based systems
     FreeBSD 5.x, [6789].x and 1[012].8for Alpha, AMD64 and Sparc64
	 based systems
     HP-UX 11.00
     NetBSD 1.[456], 2.x and 3.x for Alpha, x86, and SPARC-based
	 systems
     OpenBSD 2.[89] and 3.[0-9] for x86-based systems
     SCO OpenServer Release 5.0.6 for x86-based systems
     SCO|Caldera UnixWare 7.1.4 for x86-based systems
     Solaris 2.6, 8, 9 and 10
     Tru64 UNIX 5.1
(Note: for AIX 5L and above needs setuid-root permission if its option is
used.)	for these dialects does not support a device cache, so the permissions
given to the executable don't apply to the device cache file.
     Linux
The option provides limited means for specifying the device cache file path.
Its function will report the read-only and write device cache file paths that
will use.  When the and functions are available, you can use them to request
that the cache file be built in a specific location (b[path]); read but not
rebuilt (r[path]); or read and rebuilt (u[path]).  The and functions are
restricted under some conditions.  They are restricted when the process is
setuid-root.  The path specified with the function is always read-only, even
when it is available.  The and functions are also restricted when the process
runs setgid and doesn't surrender the setgid permission.  (See the section for
a list of implementations that normally don't surrender their setgid
permission.)  A further function, (for ignore), is always available.  When
available, the function tells to read device information from the kernel with
the function and build a device cache file at the indicated path.  When
available, the function tells to read the device cache file, but not update
it.  When a path argument accompanies it names the device cache file path.
The function is always available when it is specified without a path name
argument.  If is not running setuid-root and surrenders its setgid permission,
a path name argument may accompany the function.  When available, the function
tells to attempt to read and use the device cache file.	 If it can't read the
file, or if it finds the contents of the file incorrect or outdated, it will
read information from the kernel, and attempt to write an updated version of
the device cache file, but only to a path it considers legitimate for the
process effective and real UIDs.  second choice for the device cache file is
the contents of the LSOFDEVCACHE environment variable.	It avoids this choice
if the process is setuid-root, or the real UID of the process is root.	A
further restriction applies to a device cache file path taken from the
LSOFDEVCACHE environment variable: will not write a device cache file to the
path if the process doesn't surrender its setgid permission.  (See the section
for information on implementations that don't surrender their setgid
permission.)  The local system administrator can disable the use of the
LSOFDEVCACHE environment variable or change its name when building Consult the
output of for the environment variable's name.	The local system administrator
may choose to have a system-wide device cache file when building That file
will generally be constructed by a special system administration procedure
when the system is booted or when the contents of or changes.  If defined, it
is third device cache file path choice.	 You can tell that a system-wide
device cache file is in effect for your local installation by examining the
help option output - i.e., the output from the or option.  will never write to
the system-wide device cache file path by default.  It must be explicitly
named with a function in a root-owned procedure.  Once the file has been
written, the procedure must change its permission modes to 0644 (owner-read
and owner-write, group-read, and other-read).  The default device cache file
path of the distribution is one recorded in the home directory of the real UID
that executes Added to the home directory is a second path component of the
form This is fourth device cache file path choice, and is usually the default.
If a system-wide device cache file path was defined when was built, this
fourth choice will be applied when can't find the system-wide device cache
file.  This is the time uses two paths when reading the device cache file.
The part of the second component is the base name of the executing host, as
returned by The base name is defined to be the characters preceding the first
`.' in the output, or all the output if it contains no `.'.  The device cache
file belongs to the user ID and is readable and writable by the user ID alone
- i.e., its modes are 0600.  Each distinct real user ID on a given host that
executes has a distinct device cache file.  The part of the path distinguishes
device cache files in an NFS-mounted home directory into which device cache
files are written from several different hosts.	 The personal device cache
file path formed by this method represents a device cache file that will
attempt to read, and will attempt to write should it not exist or should its
contents be incorrect or outdated.  The option without a path name argument
will inhibit the writing of a new device cache file.  The option will list the
format specification for constructing the personal device cache file.  The
conversions used in the format specification are described in the file of the
distribution.  If this option is defined by the local system administrator
when is built, the LSOFPERSDCPATH environment variable contents may be used to
add a component of the personal device cache file path.	 The LSOFPERSDCPATH
variable contents are inserted in the path at the place marked by the local
system administrator with the ``%p'' conversion in the HASPERSDC format
specification of the dialect's header file.  (It's placed right after the home
directory in the default distribution.)	 Thus, for example, if LSOFPERSDCPATH
contains ``LSOF'', the home directory is ``/Homes/abe'', the host name is
``lsof.itap.purdue.edu'', and the HASPERSDC format is the default
(``%h/%p.lsof_%L''), the modified personal device cache file path is:
     /Homes/abe/LSOF/.lsof_vic
The LSOFPERSDCPATH environment variable is ignored when the process is
setuid-root or when the real UID of the process is root.  will not write to a
modified personal device cache file path if the process doesn't surrender
setgid permission.  (See the section for a list of implementations that
normally don't surrender their setgid permission.)  If, for example, you want
to create a sub-directory of personal device cache file paths by using the
LSOFPERSDCPATH environment variable to name it, and doesn't surrender its
setgid permission, you will have to allow to create device cache files at the
standard personal path and move them to your subdirectory with shell commands.
The local system administrator may: disable this option when is built; change
the name of the environment variable from LSOFPERSDCPATH to something else;
change the HASPERSDC format to include the personal path component in another
place; or exclude the personal path component entirely.	 Consult the output of
the option for the environment variable's name and the HASPERSDC format
specification.	Errors are identified with messages on the standard error
file.  returns a one (1) if any error was detected, including the failure to
locate command names, file names, Internet addresses or files, login names,
NFS files, PIDs, PGIDs, or UIDs it was asked to list.  If the option is
specified, will indicate the search items it failed to list.  If the option is
specified, will ignore any search item failures and only return an error if
something unusual and unrecoverable happened.  It returns a zero (0) if no
errors were detected and if either the option was specified or it was able to
list some information about all the specified search arguments.	 When cannot
open access to (or or one of its subdirectories, or get information on a file
in them with it issues a warning message and continues.	 That will issue
warning messages about inaccessible files in (or is indicated in its help
output - requested with the or >B -?  options -	 with the message:
     Inaccessible /dev warnings are enabled.
The warning message may be suppressed with the option.	It may also have been
suppressed by the system administrator when was compiled by the setting of the
WARNDEVACCESS definition.  In this case, the output from the help options will
include the message:
     Inaccessible /dev warnings are disabled.
Inaccessible device warning messages usually disappear after has created a
working device cache file.  For a more extensive set of examples, documented
more fully, see the file of the distribution.  To list all open files, use:
lsof To list all open Internet, x.25 (HP-UX), and UNIX domain files, use: lsof
-i -U To list all open IPv4 network files in use by the process whose PID is
1234, use: lsof -i 4 -a -p 1234 If it's okay for PID 1234 to not exist, or for
PID 1234 to not have any open IPv4 network files, add : lsof -Q -i 4 -a -p
1234 Presuming the UNIX dialect supports IPv6, to list only open IPv6 network
files, use: lsof -i 6 To list all files using any protocol on ports 513, 514,
or 515 of host wonderland.cc.purdue.edu, use: lsof -i
@wonderland.cc.purdue.edu:513-515 To list all files using any protocol on any
port of mace.cc.purdue.edu (cc.purdue.edu is the default domain), use: lsof -i
@mace To list all open files for login name ``abe'', or user ID 1234, or
process 456, or process 123, or process 789, use: lsof -p 456,123,789 -u
1234,abe To list all open files on device /dev/hd4, use: lsof /dev/hd4 To find
the process that has /u/abe/foo open without worrying if there are none, use:
lsof -Q /u/abe/foo To take action only if a process has /u/abe/foo open, use:
lsof /u/abe/foo	 echo "still in use" To send a SIGHUP to the processes that
have /u/abe/bar open, use: kill -HUP `lsof -t /u/abe/bar` To find any open
file, including an open UNIX domain socket file, with the name use: lsof
/dev/log To find processes with open files on the NFS file system named whose
server is inaccessible, and presuming your mount table supplies the device
number for use: lsof -b /nfs/mount/point To do the preceding search with
warning messages suppressed, use: lsof -bw /nfs/mount/point To ignore the
device cache file, use: lsof -Di To obtain PID and command name field output
for each process, file descriptor, file device number, and file inode number
for each file of each process, use: lsof -FpcfDi To list the files at
descriptors 1 and 3 of every process running the command for login ID ``abe''
every 10 seconds, use: lsof -c lsof -a -d 1 -d 3 -u abe -r10 To list the
current working directory of processes running a command that is exactly four
characters long and has an 'o' or 'O' in character three, use this regular
expression form of the option: lsof -c /^..o.$/i -a -d cwd To find an IP
version 4 socket file by its associated numeric dot-form address, use: lsof
-i@128.210.15.17 To find an IP version 6 socket file (when the UNIX dialect
supports IPv6) by its associated numeric colon-form address, use: lsof
-i@[0:1:2:3:4:5:6:7] To find an IP version 6 socket file (when the UNIX
dialect supports IPv6) by an associated numeric colon-form address that has a
run of zeroes in it - e.g., the loop-back address - use: lsof -i@[::1] To
obtain a repeat mode marker line that contains the current time, use: lsof
-rm====%T==== To add spaces to the previous marker line, use: lsof -r "m====
%T ====" Since reads kernel memory in its search for open files, rapid changes
in kernel memory may produce unpredictable results.  When a file has multiple
record locks, the lock status character (following the file descriptor) is
derived from a test of the first lock structure, not from any combination of
the individual record locks that might be described by multiple lock
structures.  can't search for files with restrictive access permissions by
unless it is installed with root set-UID permission.  Otherwise it is limited
to searching for files to which its user or its set-GID group (if any) has
access permission.  The display of the destination address of a raw socket
(e.g., for depends on the UNIX operating system.  Some dialects store the
destination address in the raw socket's protocol control block, some do not.
can't always represent Solaris device numbers in the same way that does.  For
example, the major and minor device numbers that the and functions report for
the directory on which CD-ROM files are mounted (typically are not the same as
the ones that it reports for the device on which CD-ROM files are mounted
(typically (Lsof reports the directory numbers.)  The support for file systems
is available only for BSD and Tru64 UNIX dialects, Linux, and dialects derived
from SYSV R4 - e.g., FreeBSD, NetBSD, OpenBSD, Solaris, UnixWare.  Some file
items - device number, inode number, and file size - are unavailable in some
dialects.  Searching for files in a file system may require that the full path
name be specified.  No text (txt) file descriptors are displayed for Linux
processes.  All entries for files other than the current working directory,
the root directory, and numerical file descriptors are labeled descriptors.
can't search for Tru64 UNIX named pipes by name, because their kernel
implementation of lstat(2) returns an improper device number for a named pipe.
can't report fully or correctly on HP-UX 9.01, 10.20, and 11.00 locks because
of insufficient access to kernel data or errors in the kernel data.  See the
FAQ (The FAQ section gives its location.)  for details.	 The AIX SMT file type
is a fabrication.  It's made up for file structures whose type (15) isn't
defined in the AIX header file.	 One way to create such file structures is to
run X clients with the DISPLAY variable set to ``:0.0''.  The option is not
supported under /proc-based Linux because it doesn't read kernel structures
from kernel memory.  may access these environment variables.  LANG defines a
language locale.  See for the names of other variables that can be used in
place of LANG - e.g., LC_ALL, LC_TYPE, etc.  LSOFDEVCACHE defines the path to
a device cache file.  See the section for more information.  LSOFPERSDCPATH
defines the middle component of a modified personal device cache file path.
See the section for more information.  Frequently-asked questions and their
answers (an FAQ) are available in the file of the distribution.	 That latest
version of the file is found at:
https://github.com/lsof-org/lsof/blob/master/00FAQ kernel virtual memory
device physical memory device system paging device device cache file (The
suffix, is the first component of the host's name returned by was written by
Victor A.Abell <abe@purdue.edu> of Purdue University.  Since version 4.93.0,
the lsof-org team at GitHub maintains lsof.  Many others have contributed to
They're listed in the file of the distribution.	 The latest distribution of is
available at https://github.com/lsof-org/lsof/releases Not all the following
manual pages may exist in every UNIX dialect to which has been ported.
access(2), awk(1), crash(1), fattach(3C), ff(1), fstat(8), fuser(1),
gethostname(2), isprint(3), kill(1), localtime(3), lstat(2), modload(8),
mount(8), netstat(1), ofiles(8L), open(2), perl(1), ps(1), readlink(2),
setlocale(3), stat(2), strftime(3), time(2), uname(1).


