make - GNU Make utility to maintain groups of programs [OPTION]... [TARGET]...
The utility will determine automatically which pieces of a large program need
to be recompiled, and issue the commands to recompile them.  The manual
describes the GNU implementation of which was written by Richard Stallman and
Roland McGrath, and is currently maintained by Paul Smith.  Our examples show
C programs, since they are very common, but you can use with any programming
language whose compiler can be run with a shell command.  In fact, is not
limited to programs.  You can use it to describe any task where some files
must be updated automatically from others whenever the others change.  To
prepare to use you must write a file called the that describes the
relationships among files in your program, and provides commands for updating
each file.  In a program, typically the executable file is updated from object
files, which are in turn made by compiling source files.  Once a suitable
makefile exists, each time you change some source files, this simple shell
command:


suffices to perform all necessary recompilations.  The program uses the
makefile description and the last-modification times of the files to decide
which of the files need to be updated.	For each of those files, it issues the
commands recorded in the makefile.  executes commands in the to update one or
more where is typically a program.  If no option is present, will look for the
makefiles and in that order.  Normally you should call your makefile either or
(We recommend because it appears prominently near the beginning of a directory
listing, right near other important files such as The first name checked, is
not recommended for most makefiles.  You should use this name if you have a
makefile that is specific to GNU Make, and will not be understood by other
versions of If is '-', the standard input is read.  updates a target if it
depends on prerequisite files that have been modified since the target was
last modified, or if the target does not exist.

-b, -m These options are ignored for compatibility with other versions of -B,
--always-make Unconditionally make all targets.	 -C dir, --directory=dir
Change to directory before reading the makefiles or doing anything else.  If
multiple options are specified, each is interpreted relative to the previous
one: is equivalent to This is typically used with recursive invocations of
Print debugging information in addition to normal processing.  The debugging
information says which files are being considered for remaking, which file-
times are being compared and with what results, which files actually need to
be remade, which implicit rules are considered and which are
applied---everything interesting about how decides what to do.	Print
debugging information in addition to normal processing.	 If the are omitted,
then the behavior is the same as if was specified.  may be any or all of the
following names, comma- or space-separated.  Only the first character is
significant: the rest may be omitted: for all debugging output (same as using
for basic debugging, for more verbose basic debugging, for showing implicit
rule search operations, for details on invocation of commands, for debugging
while remaking makefiles, shows all recipes that are run even if they are
silent, and shows the reason decided to rebuild each target.  Use to disable
all previous debugging flags.  -e, --environment-overrides Give variables
taken from the environment precedence over variables from makefiles.  -E
string, --eval string Interpret string using the eval function, before parsing
any makefiles.	-f file, --file=file, --makefile=FILE Use as a makefile.  -i,
--ignore-errors Ignore all errors in commands executed to remake files.	 -I
dir, --include-dir=dir Specifies a directory to search for included makefiles.
If several options are used to specify several directories, the directories
are searched in the order specified.  Unlike the arguments to other flags of
directories given with flags may come directly after the flag: is allowed, as
well as This syntax is allowed for compatibility with the C preprocessor's
flag.  -j [jobs], --jobs[=jobs] Specifies the number of (commands) to run
simultaneously.	 If there is more than one option, the last one is effective.
If the option is given without an argument, will not limit the number of jobs
that can run simultaneously.  --jobserver-style=style The style of jobserver
to use.	 The may be one of or (Windows only).  -k, --keep-going Continue as
much as possible after an error.  While the target that failed, and those that
depend on it, cannot be remade, the other dependencies of these targets can be
processed all the same.	 -l [load], --load-average[=load] Specifies that no
new jobs (commands) should be started if there are others jobs running and the
load average is at least (a floating-point number).  With no argument, removes
a previous load limit.	-L, --check-symlink-times Use the latest mtime between
symlinks and target.  -n, --just-print, --dry-run, --recon Print the commands
that would be executed, but do not execute them (except in certain
circumstances).	 -o file, --old-file=file, --assume-old=file Do not remake the
file even if it is older than its dependencies, and do not remake anything on
account of changes in Essentially the file is treated as very old and its
rules are ignored.  -O[type], --output-sync[=type] When running multiple jobs
in parallel with -j, ensure the output of each job is collected together
rather than interspersed with output from other jobs.  If is not specified or
is the output from the entire recipe for each target is grouped together.  If
is the output from each command line within a recipe is grouped together.  If
is output from an entire recursive make is grouped together.  If is output
synchronization is disabled.  -p, --print-data-base Print the data base (rules
and variable values) that results from reading the makefiles; then execute as
usual or as otherwise specified.  This also prints the version information
given by the switch (see below).  To print the data base without trying to
remake any files, use -q, --question ``Question mode''.	 Do not run any
commands, or print anything; just return an exit status that is zero if the
specified targets are already up to date, nonzero otherwise.  -r,
--no-builtin-rules Eliminate use of the built-in implicit rules.  Also clear
out the default list of suffixes for suffix rules.  -R, --no-builtin-variables
Don't define any built-in variables.  -s, --silent, --quiet Silent operation;
do not print the commands as they are executed.	 Cancel the effect of the -s
option.	 -S, --no-keep-going, --stop Cancel the effect of the option.  -t,
--touch Touch files (mark them up to date without really changing them)
instead of running their commands.  This is used to pretend that the commands
were done, in order to fool future invocations of Information about the
disposition of each target is printed (why the target is being rebuilt and
what commands are run to rebuild it).  -v, --version Print the version of the
program plus a copyright, a list of authors and a notice that there is no
warranty.  -w, --print-directory Print a message containing the working
directory before and after other processing.  This may be useful for tracking
down errors from complicated nests of recursive commands.  Turn off even if it
was turned on implicitly.  Enable shuffling of goal and prerequisite ordering.
is one of to disable shuffle mode, to shuffle prerequisites in random order,
to consider prerequisites in reverse order, or an integer which enables mode
with a specific value.	If is omitted the default is -W file, --what-if=file,
--new-file=file, --assume-new=file Pretend that the target has just been
modified.  When used with the flag, this shows you what would happen if you
were to modify that file.  Without it is almost the same as running a command
on the given file before running except that the modification time is changed
only in the imagination of Warn when an undefined variable is referenced.  GNU
Make exits with a status of zero if all makefiles were successfully parsed and
no targets that were built failed.  A status of one will be returned if the
flag was used and determines that a target needs to be rebuilt.	 A status of
two will be returned if any errors were encountered.  The full documentation
for is maintained as a Texinfo manual.	If the and programs are properly
installed at your site, the command should give you access to the complete
manual.	 See the chapter ``Problems and Bugs'' in This manual page contributed
by Dennis Morse of Stanford University.	 Further updates contributed by Mike
Frysinger.  It has been reworked by Roland McGrath.  Maintained by Paul Smith.
Copyright © 1992-1993, 1996-2023 Free Software Foundation, Inc.	 This file is
part of GNU Make is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.	GNU Make is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for
more details.  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
License along with this program.  If not, see


