man - an interface to the system reference manuals
...
...
...
... is the system's manual pager.  Each argument given to is normally the name
of a program, utility or function.  The associated with each of these
arguments is then found and displayed.	A if provided, will direct to look
only in that of the manual.  The default action is to search in all of the
available following a pre-defined order (see and to show only the first found,
even if exists in several

The table below shows the numbers of the manual followed by the types of pages
they contain.

1   Executable programs or shell commands
2   System calls (functions provided by the kernel)
3   Library calls (functions within program libraries)
4   Special files (usually found in /dev)
5   File formats and conventions, e.g. /etc/passwd
6   Games
7   Miscellaneous (including macro packages and conventions), e.g. man(7),
    groff(7), man-pages(7)
8   System administration commands (usually only for root)
9   Kernel routines [Non standard]

A manual consists of several sections.

Conventional section names include and

The following conventions apply to the section and can be used as a guide in
other sections.

bold text	   type exactly as shown.
italic text	   replace with appropriate argument.
[-abc]		   any or all arguments within [ ] are optional.
-a|-b		   options delimited by | cannot be used together.
argument ...	   argument is repeatable.
[expression] ...   entire expression within [ ] is repeatable.

Exact rendering may vary depending on the output device.  For instance, man
will usually not be able to render italics when running in a terminal, and
will typically use underlined or coloured text instead.

The command or function illustration is a pattern that should match all
possible invocations.  In some cases it is advisable to illustrate several
exclusive invocations as is shown in the section of this manual page.  Display
the manual page for the (program) man man.7 Display the manual page for macro
package from section (This is an alternative spelling of "man 7 man".)	man
'man(7)' Display the manual page for macro package from section (This is
another alternative spelling of "man 7 man".  It may be more convenient when
copying and pasting cross-references to manual pages.  Note that the
parentheses must normally be quoted to protect them from the shell.)  Display,
in succession, all of the available manual pages contained within the manual.
It is possible to quit between successive displays or skip any of them.	 man
-t bash | lpr -Pps Format the manual page for into the default or format and
pipe it to the printer named The default output for is usually PostScript.
should advise as to which processor is bound to the option.  This command will
decompress and format the nroff source manual page into a file.	 The
redirection is necessary as the flag causes output to be directed to with no
pager.	The output could be viewed with a program such as or further processed
into PostScript using a program such as Search the short descriptions and
manual page names for the keyword as regular expression.  Print out any
matches.  Equivalent to Lookup the manual pages referenced by and print out
the short descriptions of any found.  Equivalent to Many options are available
to in order to give as much flexibility as possible to the user.  Changes can
be made to the search path, section order, output processor, and other
behaviours and operations detailed below.

If set, various environment variables are interrogated to determine the
operation of It is possible to set the "catch-all" variable to any string in
command line format, with the exception that any spaces used as part of an
option's argument must be escaped (preceded by a backslash).  will parse prior
to parsing its own command line.  Those options requiring an argument will be
overridden by the same options found on the command line.  To reset all of the
options set in can be specified as the initial command line option.  This will
allow man to "forget" about the options specified in although they must still
have been valid.

Manual pages are normally stored in format under a directory such as In some
installations, there may also be preformatted to improve performance.  See for
details of where these files are stored.

This package supports manual pages in multiple languages, controlled by your
If your system did not set this up for you automatically, then you may need to
set or another system-dependent environment variable to indicate your
preferred locale, usually specified in the format:

<language>[_<territory>[.<character-set>[,<version>]]]

If the desired page is available in your it will be displayed in lieu of the
standard (usually American English) page.

If you find that the translations supplied with this package are not available
in your native language and you would like to supply them, please contact the
maintainer who will be coordinating such activity.

Individual manual pages are normally written and maintained by the maintainers
of the program, function, or other topic that they document, and are not
included with this package.  If you find that a manual page is missing or
inadequate, please report that to the maintainers of the package in question.

For information regarding other features and extensions available with this
manual pager, please read the documents supplied with the package.  The order
of sections to search may be overridden by the environment variable or by the
directive in By default it is as follows:

1 1p 8 2 3 3p 3pm 4 5 6 7 9 0p n l p o 1x 2x 3x 4x 5x 6x 7x 8x

The formatted manual page is displayed using a This can be specified in a
number of ways, or else will fall back to a default (see option for details).

The filters are deciphered by a number of means.  Firstly, the command line
option or the environment variable is interrogated.  If was not used and the
environment variable was not set, the initial line of the nroff file is parsed
for a preprocessor string.  To contain a valid preprocessor string, the first
line must resemble


where can be any combination of letters described by option below.

If none of the above methods provide any filter information, a default set is
used.

A formatting pipeline is formed from the filters and the primary formatter or
with and executed.  Alternatively, if an executable program (or with exists in
the man tree root, it is executed instead.  It gets passed the manual source
file, the preprocessor string, and optionally the device specified with as
arguments.  Non-argument options that are duplicated either on the command
line, in or both, are not harmful.  For options that require an argument, each
duplication will override the previous argument value.	Use this user
configuration file rather than the default of Print debugging information.
This option is normally issued as the very first option and resets behaviour
to its default.	 Its use is to reset those options that may have been set in
Any options that follow will have their usual effect.  --warnings[=warnings]
Enable warnings from This may be used to perform sanity checks on the source
text of manual pages.  is a comma-separated list of warning names; if it is
not supplied, the default is "mac".  To disable a warning, prefix it with "!":
for example, enables warnings in the "mac" category and disables warnings in
the "break" category.  See the “Warnings” node in for a list of available
warning names.	Approximately equivalent to Display a short description from
the manual page, if available.	See for details.  Approximately equivalent to
Search the short manual page descriptions for keywords and display any
matches.  See for details.  Search for text in all manual pages.  This is a
brute-force search, and is likely to take some time; if you can, you should
specify a section to reduce the number of pages that need to be searched.
Search terms may be simple strings (the default), or regular expressions if
the option is used.  Note that this searches the of the manual pages, not the
rendered text, and so may include false positives due to things like comments
in source files, or false negatives due to things like hyphens being written
as "\-" in source files.  Searching the rendered text would be much slower.
Activate "local" mode.	Format and display local manual files instead of
searching through the system's manual collection.  Each manual page argument
will be interpreted as an nroff source file in the correct format.  No cat
file is produced.  If '-' is listed as one of the arguments, input will be
taken from stdin.  If this option is not used, then will also fall back to
interpreting manual page arguments as local file names if the argument
contains a "/" character, since that is a good indication that the argument
refers to a path on the file system.  Don't actually display the manual page,
but do print the location of the source nroff file that would be formatted.
If the option is also used, then print the locations of all source files that
match the search criteria.  Don't actually display the manual page, but do
print the location of the preformatted cat file that would be displayed.  If
the option is also used, then print the locations of all preformatted cat
files that match the search criteria.  If and are both used, then print both
source file and cat file separated by a space.	If all of and are used, then
do this for each possible match.  This option is not for general use and
should only be used by the program.  Instead of formatting the manual page in
the usual way, output its source converted to the specified If you already
know the encoding of the source file, you can also use directly.  However,
this option allows you to convert several manual pages to a single encoding
without having to explicitly state the encoding of each, provided that they
were already installed in a structure similar to a manual page hierarchy.
Consider using instead for converting multiple manual pages, since it has an
interface designed for bulk conversion and so can be much faster.  will
normally determine your current locale by a call to the C function which
interrogates various environment variables, possibly including and To
temporarily override the determined value, use this option to supply a string
directly to Note that it will not take effect until the search for pages
actually begins.  Output such as the help message will always be displayed in
the initially determined locale.  -m system[,...], --systems=system[,...] If
this system has access to other operating systems' manual pages, they can be
accessed using this option.  To search for a manual page from NewOS's manual
page collection, use the option

The specified can be a combination of comma delimited operating system names.
To include a search of the native operating system's manual pages, include the
system name in the argument string.  This option will override the environment
variable.  Specify an alternate manpath to use.	 By default, uses derived code
to determine the path to search.  This option overrides the environment
variable and causes option to be ignored.

A path specified as a manpath must be the root of a manual page hierarchy
structured into sections as described in the man-db manual (under "The manual
page system").	To view manual pages outside such hierarchies, see the option.
-S list, -s list, --sections=list The given is a colon- or comma-separated
list of sections, used to determine which manual sections to search and in
what order.  This option overrides the environment variable.  (The spelling is
for compatibility with System V.)  Some systems incorporate large packages of
manual pages, such as those that accompany the package, into the main manual
page hierarchy.	 To get around the problem of having two manual pages with the
same name such as the pages were usually all assigned to section As this is
unfortunate, it is now possible to put the pages in the correct section, and
to assign a specific "extension" to them, in this case, Under normal
operation, will display in preference to To negotiate this situation and to
avoid having to know which section the page you require resides in, it is now
possible to give a string indicating which package the page must belong to.
Using the above example, supplying the option to will restrict the search to
pages having an extension of Ignore case when searching for manual pages.
This is the default.  Search for manual pages case-sensitively.	 Show all
pages with any part of either their names or their descriptions matching each
argument as a regular expression, as with Since there is usually no reasonable
way to pick a "best" page when searching for a regular expression, this option
implies Show all pages with any part of either their names or their
descriptions matching each argument using shell-style wildcards, as with The
argument must match the entire name or description, or match on word
boundaries in the description.	Since there is usually no reasonable way to
pick a "best" page when searching for a wildcard, this option implies If the
or option is used, match only page names, not page descriptions, as with
Otherwise, no effect.  By default, will exit after displaying the most
suitable manual page it finds.	Using this option forces to display all the
manual pages with names that match the search criteria.	 This option causes to
update its database caches of installed manual pages.  This is only needed in
rare situations, and it is normally better to run instead.  By default, will
try to interpret pairs of manual page names given on the command line as
equivalent to a single manual page name containing a hyphen or an underscore.
This supports the common pattern of programs that implement a number of
subcommands, allowing them to provide manual pages for each that can be
accessed using similar syntax as would be used to invoke the subcommands
themselves.  For example:

  $ man -aw git diff
  /usr/share/man/man1/git-diff.1.gz

To disable this behaviour, use the option.

  $ man -aw --no-subpages git diff
  /usr/share/man/man1/git.1.gz
  /usr/share/man/man3/Git.3pm.gz
  /usr/share/man/man1/diff.1.gz
Specify which output pager to use.  By default, uses falling back to if is not
found or is not executable.  This option overrides the environment variable,
which in turn overrides the environment variable.  It is not used in
conjunction with or

The value may be a simple command name or a command with arguments, and may
use shell quoting (backslashes, single quotes, or double quotes).  It may not
use pipes to connect multiple commands; if you need that, use a wrapper
script, which may take the file to display either as an argument or on
standard input.	 If a recent version of is used as the pager, will attempt to
set its prompt and some sensible options.  The default prompt looks like


where denotes the manual page name, denotes the section it was found under and
the current line number.  This is achieved by using the environment variable.

Supplying with a string will override this default.  The string may contain
the text which will be expanded to the name of the current manual page and its
section name surrounded by "(" and ")".	 The string used to produce the
default could be expressed as


It is broken into three lines here for the sake of readability only.  For its
meaning see the manual page.  The prompt string is first evaluated by the
shell.	All double quotes, back-quotes and backslashes in the prompt must be
escaped by a preceding backslash.  The prompt string may end in an escaped $
which may be followed by further options for less.  By default sets the
options.

The environment variable described below may be used to set a default prompt
string if none is supplied on the command line.	 When viewing a pure manual
page on a 7 bit terminal or terminal emulator, some characters may not display
correctly when using the device description with This option allows pure
manual pages to be displayed in with the device.  It will not translate any
text.  The following table shows the translations performed: some parts of it
may only be displayed properly when using device.

Description	      Octal   latin1   ascii
─────────────────────────────────────────────
continuation hyphen    255	‐	 -
bullet (middle dot)    267	•	 o
acute accent	       264	´	 '
multiplication sign    327	×	 x

If the column displays correctly, your terminal may be set up for characters
and this option is not necessary.  If the and columns are identical, you are
reading this page using this option or did not format this page using the
device description.  If the column is missing or corrupt, you may need to view
manual pages with this option.

This option is ignored when using options or and may be useless for other than
Generate output for a character encoding other than the default.  For backward
compatibility, may be an device such as as well as a true character encoding
such as Normally, will automatically hyphenate text at line breaks even in
words that do not contain hyphens, if it is necessary to do so to lay out
words on a line without excessive spacing.  This option disables automatic
hyphenation, so words will only be hyphenated if they already contain hyphens.

If you are writing a manual page and simply want to prevent from hyphenating a
word at an inappropriate point, do not use this option, but consult the
documentation instead; for instance, you can put "\%" inside a word to
indicate that it may be hyphenated at that point, or put "\%" at the start of
a word to prevent it from being hyphenated.  Normally, will automatically
justify text to both margins.  This option disables full justification,
leaving justified only to the left margin, sometimes called "ragged-right"
text.

If you are writing a manual page and simply want to prevent from justifying
certain paragraphs, do not use this option, but consult the documentation
instead; for instance, you can use the ".na", ".nf", ".fi", and ".ad" requests
to temporarily disable adjusting and filling.  Specify the sequence of
preprocessors to run before or Not all installations will have a full set of
preprocessors.	Some of the preprocessors and the letters used to designate
them are: This option overrides the environment variable.  is always run as
the very first preprocessor.  Use to format the manual page to stdout.	This
option is not required in conjunction with or -T[device],
--troff-device[=device] This option is used to change (or possibly output to
be suitable for a device other than the default.  It implies Examples (as of
groff 1.23.0) include and -H[browser], --html[=browser] This option will cause
to produce HTML output, and will display that output in a web browser.	The
choice of browser is determined by the optional argument if one is provided,
by the environment variable, or by a compile-time default if that is unset
(usually This option implies and will only work with -X[dpi],
--gxditview[=dpi] This option displays the output of in a graphical window
using the program.  The (dots per inch) may be 75, 75-12, 100, or 100-12,
defaulting to 75; the -12 variants use a 12-point base font.  This option
implies with the X75, X75-12, X100, or X100-12 device respectively.  will run
and then use an appropriate post-processor to produce output suitable for the
chosen device.	If is this option is passed to and will suppress the use of a
post-processor.	 It implies Print a help message and exit.  Print a short
usage message and exit.	 Display version information.  Successful program
execution.  Usage, syntax or configuration file error.	Operational error.  A
child process returned a non-zero exit status.	At least one of the
pages/files/keywords didn't exist or wasn't matched.  If is set, its value is
used as the path to search for manual pages.

See the section of for the default behaviour and details of how this
environment variable is handled.  Every time invokes the formatter or it adds
the contents of to the formatter's command line.

For example, tells the formatter to use italic text (which is only supported
by some terminals) rather than underlined text.	 If is set, its value is used
to determine the set of preprocessors to pass each manual page through.	 The
default preprocessor list is system dependent.	If is set, its value is a
colon-delimited list of sections and it is used to determine which manual
sections to search and in what order.  The default is "1 1p 8 2 3 3p 3pm 4 5 6
7 9 0p n l p o 1x 2x 3x 4x 5x 6x 7x 8x", unless overridden by the directive in
If or is set is used in preference), its value is used as the name of the
program used to display the manual page.  By default, is used, falling back to
if is not found or is not executable.

The value may be a simple command name or a command with arguments, and may
use shell quoting (backslashes, single quotes, or double quotes).  It may not
use pipes to connect multiple commands; if you need that, use a wrapper
script, which may take the file to display either as an argument or on
standard input.	 If is set, its value will be used as the default prompt
string for the pager, as if it had been passed using the option (so any
occurrences of the text will be expanded in the same way).  For example, if
you want to set the prompt string unconditionally to “my prompt string”, set
to Using the option overrides this environment variable.  If is set, its value
is a colon-delimited list of commands, each of which in turn is used to try to
start a web browser for In each command, is replaced by a filename containing
the HTML output from is replaced by a single percent sign (%), and is replaced
by a colon (:).	 If is set, it will have the same effect as if it had been
specified as the argument to the option.  If is set, it will be parsed prior
to command line and is expected to be in a similar format.  As all of the
other specific environment variables can be expressed as command line options,
and are thus candidates for being included in it is expected that they will
become obsolete.  N.B.	All spaces that should be interpreted as part of an
option's argument must be escaped.  If is set, its value is used as the line
length for which manual pages should be formatted.  If it is not set, manual
pages will be formatted with a line length appropriate to the current terminal
(using the value of and if available, or falling back to 80 characters if
neither is available).	Cat pages will only be saved when the default
formatting can be used, that is when the terminal line length is between 66
and 80 characters.  Normally, when output is not being directed to a terminal
(such as to a file or a pipe), formatting characters are discarded to make it
easier to read the result without special tools.  However, if is set to any
non-empty value, these formatting characters are retained.  This may be useful
for wrappers around that can interpret formatting characters.  Normally, when
output is being directed to a terminal (usually to a pager), any error output
from the command used to produce formatted versions of manual pages is
discarded to avoid interfering with the pager's display.  Programs such as
often produce relatively minor error messages about typographical problems
such as poor alignment, which are unsightly and generally confusing when
displayed along with the manual page.  However, some users want to see them
anyway, so, if is set to any non-empty value, error output will be displayed
as usual.  On Linux, normally confines subprocesses that handle untrusted data
using a sandbox.  This makes it safer to run complex parsing code over
arbitrary manual pages.	 If this goes wrong for some reason unrelated to the
content of the page being displayed, you can set to any non-empty value to
disable the sandbox.  If the environment variable is set to "1", then will
print debugging messages to standard error describing each subprocess it runs.
Depending on system and implementation, either or both of and will be
interrogated for the current message locale.  will display its messages in
that locale (if available).  See for precise details.  man-db configuration
file.  A global manual page hierarchy.	POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008,
POSIX.1-2017.  Documentation for some packages may be available in other
formats, such as or HTML.  1990, 1991 – Originally written by John W. Eaton
(jwe@che.utexas.edu).

Dec 23 1992: Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu) applied bug fixes supplied by Willem
Kasdorp (wkasdo@nikhefk.nikef.nl).

30th April 1994 – 23rd February 2000: Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk) has
been developing and maintaining this package with the help of a few dedicated
people.

30th October 1996 – 30th March 2001: Fabrizio Polacco <fpolacco@debian.org>
maintained and enhanced this package for the Debian project, with the help of
all the community.

31st March 2001 – present day: Colin Watson <cjwatson@debian.org> is now
developing and maintaining man-db.  https://gitlab.com/man-db/man-db/-/issues
https://savannah.nongnu.org/bugs/?group=man-db


