mandb - create or update the manual page index caches
is used to initialise or manually update database caches.  The caches contain
information relevant to the current state of the manual page system and the
information stored within them is used by the man-db utilities to enhance
their speed and functionality.

When creating or updating an will warn of bad ROFF .so requests, bogus manual
page filenames and manual pages from which the cannot be parsed.

Supplying with an optional colon-delimited path will override the internal
system manual page hierarchy search path, determined from information found
within the man-db configuration file.  can be compiled with support for any
one of the following database types.

Name	      Async   Filename
──────────────────────────────────────
Berkeley db   Yes     index.bt
GNU gdbm      Yes     index.db
UNIX ndbm     No      index.(dir|pag)

Those database types that support asynchronous updates provide enhanced speed
at the cost of possible corruption in the event of unusual termination.	 In an
unusual case where this has occurred, it may be necessary to rerun with the
option to re-create the databases from scratch.	 Print debugging information.
Produce no warnings.  Do not spend time looking for or adding information to
the databases regarding stray cats.  Do not spend time checking for deleted
manual pages and purging them from the databases.  By default, will try to
update any previously created databases.  If a database does not exist, it
will create it.	 This option forces to delete previous databases and re-create
them from scratch, and implies This may be necessary if a database becomes
corrupt or if a new database storage scheme is introduced in the future.
Create user databases only, even with write permissions necessary to create
system databases.  Perform correctness checks on manual pages in the hierarchy
search path.  With this option, will not alter existing databases.  Update
only the entries for the given filename.  This option is not for general use;
it is used internally by when it has been compiled with the option and finds
that a page is out of date.  It implies and disables and Use this user
configuration file rather than the default of Show the usage message, then
exit.  Print a short usage message and exit.  Show the version, then exit.
Successful program execution.  Usage, syntax, or configuration file error.
Operational error.  A child process failed.  The following warning messages
can be emitted during database building.  An attempt to extract whatis line(s)
from the given <filename> failed.  This is usually due to a poorly written
manual page, but if many such messages are emitted it is likely that the
system contains non-standard manual pages which are incompatible with the man-
db whatis parser.  See the section in for more information.  <filename> does
not exist but is referenced by a symbolic link.	 Further diagnostics are
usually emitted to identify the <filename> of the offending link.  <filename>
is either a symbolic link to, or contains a ROFF include request to, a non
existent file.	The <filename> may or may not be a valid manual page but its
name is invalid.  This is usually due to a manual page with sectional
extension <x> being put in manual page section <y>.  The wildcard
<filename_mask> is not unique.	This is usually caused by the existence of
both a compressed and uncompressed version of the same manual page.  All but
the most recent are ignored.  man-db configuration file.  An FHS compliant
global database cache.	Older locations for the database cache included: A
traditional global database cache.  An alternate or FSSTND compliant global
database cache.	 The section formerly in this manual page is now part of
Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk).
Fabrizio Polacco (fpolacco@debian.org).
Colin Watson (cjwatson@debian.org).
https://gitlab.com/man-db/man-db/-/issues
https://savannah.nongnu.org/bugs/?group=man-db


