mapscrn - load screen output mapping table [options] The command is obsolete -
its function is now built-in into setfont.  However, for backwards
compatibility it is still available as a separate command.  The command loads
a user defined output character mapping table into the console driver. The
console driver may be later put into mode by outputting a special escape
sequence to the console device.	 This sequence is for the character set and
for the character set.	When the option is given, the old map is saved in
There are two kinds of mapping tables: direct-to-font tables, that give a font
position for each user byte value, and user-to-unicode tables that give a
unicode value for each user byte. The corresponding glyph is now found using
the unicode index of the font.	The command mapscrn trivial sets up a one-to-
one direct-to-font table where user bytes directly address the font. This is
useful for fonts that are in the same order as the character set one uses.  A
command like mapscrn 8859-2 sets up a user-to-unicode table that assumes that
the user uses ISO 8859-2.  The command can read the map in either of two
formats:
1. 256 or 512 bytes binary data
2. two-column text file
Format (1) is a direct image of the translation the 512-bytes tables are user-
to-unicode tables.  Format (2) is used to fill the as follows: cell with
offset mentioned in the first column is filled with the value mentioned in the
second column.	When values larger than 255 occur, or values are written using
the U+xxxx notation, the table is assumed to be a user-to-unicode table,
otherwise it is a direct-to-font table.	 Values in the file may be specified
in one of several
String of decimal digits not starting with '0'
String of octal digits beginning with '0'.
String of hexadecimal digits preceded by "0x".
String of four hexadecimal digits preceded by "U+".
Single character enclosed in single quotes. (And the binary value is used.)
Note that blank, comma, tab character and '#' cannot be specified with this
format.
Single (possibly multi-byte) UTF-8 character, enclosed in single quotes.  Note
that control characters (with codes < 32) cannot be re-mapped with because
they have special meaning for the driver.  -o, --output=FILE save the old map
to the FILE.  -C, --console=DEV the console device to be used.	-v, --verbose
be more verbose.  -V, --version print version number.  -h, --help print this
usage message.	The default directory for screen mappings.  Copyright (C) 1993
Eugene G. Crosser
<crosser@pccross.msk.su>
This software and documentation may be distributed freely.


