msgmerge - merge message catalog and template [OPTION] def.po ref.pot Merges
two Uniforum style .po files together.	The def.po file is an existing PO file
with translations which will be taken over to the newly created file as long
as they still match; comments will be preserved, but extracted comments and
file positions will be discarded.  The ref.pot file is the last created PO
file with up-to-date source references but old translations, or a PO Template
file (generally created by xgettext); any translations or comments in the file
will be discarded, however dot comments and file positions will be preserved.
Where an exact match cannot be found, fuzzy matching is used to produce better
results.  Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options
too.  def.po translations referring to old sources ref.pot references to new
sources -D, --directory=DIRECTORY add DIRECTORY to list for input files search
-C, --compendium=FILE additional library of message translations, may be
specified more than once -U, --update update def.po, do nothing if def.po
already up to date -o, --output-file=FILE write output to specified file The
results are written to standard output if no output file is specified or if it
is -.  Output file location in update mode: The result is written back to
def.po.	 --backup=CONTROL make a backup of def.po --suffix=SUFFIX override the
usual backup suffix The version control method may be selected via the
--backup option or through the VERSION_CONTROL environment variable.  Here are
the values: none, off never make backups (even if --backup is given) numbered,
t make numbered backups existing, nil numbered if numbered backups exist,
simple otherwise simple, never always make simple backups The backup suffix is
'~', unless set with --suffix or the SIMPLE_BACKUP_SUFFIX environment
variable.  -m, --multi-domain apply ref.pot to each of the domains in def.po
--for-msgfmt produce output for 'msgfmt', not for a translator -N,
--no-fuzzy-matching do not use fuzzy matching --previous keep previous msgids
of translated messages -P, --properties-input input files are in Java
.properties syntax --stringtable-input input files are in NeXTstep/GNUstep
.strings syntax --lang=CATALOGNAME set 'Language' field in the header entry
--color use colors and other text attributes always --color=WHEN use colors
and other text attributes if WHEN.  WHEN may be 'always', 'never', 'auto', or
'html'.	 --style=STYLEFILE specify CSS style rule file for --color -e,
--no-escape do not use C escapes in output (default) -E, --escape use C
escapes in output, no extended chars --force-po write PO file even if empty
-i, --indent indented output style --no-location suppress '#: filename:line'
lines -n, --add-location preserve '#: filename:line' lines (default) --strict
strict Uniforum output style -p, --properties-output write out a Java
.properties file --stringtable-output write out a NeXTstep/GNUstep .strings
file -w, --width=NUMBER set output page width --no-wrap do not break long
message lines, longer than the output page width, into several lines -s,
--sort-output generate sorted output (deprecated) -F, --sort-by-file sort
output by file location -h, --help display this help and exit -V, --version
output version information and exit -v, --verbose increase verbosity level -q,
--quiet, --silent suppress progress indicators Written by Peter Miller.
Report bugs in the bug tracker at <https://savannah.gnu.org/projects/gettext>
or by email to <bug-gettext@gnu.org>.  Copyright © 1995-2025 Free Software
Foundation, Inc.  License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later
<https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is
NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.  The full documentation for is
maintained as a Texinfo manual.	 If the and programs are properly installed at
your site, the command should give you access to the complete manual.


