
nano - Nano's ANOther text editor, inspired by Pico



Since version 8.0, to be newcomer friendly, ^F starts a forward search, ^B
starts a backward search, M-F searches the next occurrence forward, and M-B
searches the next occurrence backward.	If you want those keystrokes to do
what they did before version 8.0, add the following lines at the end of your
nanorc file:



nano is a small and friendly text editor.  It copies the look and feel of
Pico, but is free software, and implements several features that Pico lacks,
such as: opening multiple files, scrolling per line, undo/redo, syntax
coloring, line numbering, and soft-wrapping overlong lines.

When giving a filename on the command line, the cursor can be put on a
specific line by adding the line number with a plus sign (+) before the
filename, and even in a specific column by adding it with a comma.  Negative
numbers count from the end of the file or line.

The cursor can be put on the first or last occurrence of a specific string by
specifying that string after +/ or +? before the filename.  The string can be
made case sensitive and/or caused to be interpreted as a regular expression by
inserting c and/or r after the + sign.	These search modes can be explicitly
disabled by using the uppercase variant of those letters: C and/or R.  When
the string contains spaces, it needs to be enclosed in quotes.	To give an
example: to open a file at the first occurrence of the word "Foo", you would
do:


As a special case: if instead of a filename a dash (-) is given, nano will
read data from standard input.

Entering text and moving around in a file is straightforward: typing the
letters and using the normal cursor movement keys.  Commands are entered by
using the Control (^) and the Alt or Meta (M-) keys.  Typing ^K deletes the
current line and puts it in the cutbuffer.  Consecutive ^Ks put all deleted
lines together in the cutbuffer.  Any cursor movement or executing any other
command causes the next ^K to overwrite the cutbuffer.	A ^U pastes the
current contents of the cutbuffer at the current cursor position.

When a more precise piece of text needs to be cut or copied, you can mark its
start with ^6, move the cursor to its end (the marked text is highlighted),
and then use ^K to cut it, or M-6 to copy it to the cutbuffer.	You can also
save the marked text to a file with ^O, or spell check it with ^T^T.

On some terminals, text can be selected also by holding down Shift while using
the arrow keys.	 Holding down the Ctrl or Alt key too increases the stride.
Any cursor movement without Shift being held cancels such a selection.

Any valid Unicode code point can be inserted into the buffer by typing M-V
followed by the hexadecimal digits of the code point (concluded with <Space>
or <Enter> when it are fewer than six digits).	A literal control code (except
^J) can be inserted by typing M-V followed by the pertinent keystroke.

The two lines at the bottom of the screen show some important commands; the
built-in help (^G) lists all the available ones.  The default key bindings can
be changed via a nanorc file — see


Make the Home key smarter.  When Home is pressed anywhere but at the very
beginning of non-whitespace characters on a line, the cursor jumps to that
beginning (either forwards or backwards).  If the cursor is already at that
position, it jumps to the true beginning of the line.  When saving a file,
back up the previous version of it, using the current filename suffixed with a
tilde (~).  Make and keep not just one backup file, but make and keep a
uniquely numbered one every time a file is saved — when backups are enabled
(-B).  The uniquely numbered files are stored in the specified directory.  For
the interface, use bold instead of reverse video.  This can be overridden for
specific elements by setting the options titlecolor, statuscolor, promptcolor,
minicolor, keycolor, numbercolor, and/or selectedcolor in your nanorc file.
See nanorc(5).	Convert each typed tab to spaces — to the number of spaces
that a tab at that position would take up.  (Note: pasted tabs are not
converted.)  Read a file into a new buffer by default.	Use vim-style file
locking when editing files.  Save the last hundred search strings and
replacement strings and executed commands, so they can be easily reused in
later sessions.	 Don't look at the system's nanorc nor at the user's nanorc.
Draw a vertical stripe at the given column, to help judge the width of the
text.  (The color of the stripe can be changed with set stripecolor in your
nanorc file.)  Interpret escape sequences directly, instead of asking ncurses
to translate them.  (If you need this option to get some keys to work
properly, it means that the terminfo terminal description that is used does
not fully match the actual behavior of your terminal.  This can happen when
you ssh into a BSD machine, for example.)  Using this option disables nano's
mouse support.	Don't automatically add a newline when a text does not end
with one.  (This can cause you to save non-POSIX text files.)  Snip trailing
whitespace from the wrapped line when automatic hard-wrapping occurs or when
text is justified.  Disable automatic conversion of files from DOS/Mac format.
When justifying, treat any line that starts with whitespace as the beginning
of a paragraph (unless auto-indenting is on).  For the 200 most recent files,
log the last position of the cursor, and place it at that position again upon
reopening such a file.	Also save and restore the positions of any anchors.
Set the regular expression for matching the quoting part of a line.  The
default value is "^([ \t]*([!#%:;>|}]|//))+".  (Note that \t stands for an
actual Tab.)  This makes it possible to rejustify blocks of quoted text when
composing email, and to rewrap blocks of line comments when writing source
code.  Restricted mode: don't read or write to any file not specified on the
command line.  This means: don't read or write history files; don't allow
suspending; don't allow spell checking; don't allow a file to be appended to,
prepended to, or saved under a different name if it already has one; and don't
make backup files.  Restricted mode can also be activated by invoking nano
with any name beginning with 'r' (e.g. "rnano").  Display over multiple screen
rows lines that exceed the screen's width.  (You can make this soft-wrapping
occur at whitespace instead of rudely at the screen's edge, by using also
--atblanks.)  Set the size (width) of a tab to number columns.	The value of
number must be greater than 0.	The default value is 8.	 Make status-bar
messages disappear after 1 keystroke instead of after 20.  Note that option -c
(--constantshow) overrides this.  When option --minibar or --zero is in
effect, --quickblank makes a message disappear after 0.8 seconds instead of
after the default 1.5 seconds.	Show the current version number and exit.
Detect word boundaries differently by treating punctuation characters as part
of a word.  Specify which other characters (besides the normal alphanumeric
ones) should be considered as part of a word.  When using this option, you
probably want to omit -W (--wordbounds).  Specify the name of the syntax
highlighting to use from among the ones defined in the nanorc files.  Let an
unmodified Backspace or Delete erase the marked region (instead of a single
character, and without affecting the cutbuffer).  When doing soft line
wrapping, wrap lines at whitespace instead of always at the edge of the
screen.	 Automatically hard-wrap the current line when it becomes overlong.
(This option is the opposite of -w (--nowrap) -- the last one given takes
effect.)  Constantly report the cursor position on the status bar.  Note that
this overrides option -U (--quickblank).  Interpret the Delete and Backspace
keys differently so that both Backspace and Delete work properly.  You should
only use this option when on your system either Backspace acts like Delete or
Delete acts like Backspace.  Do not use the line below the title bar, leaving
it entirely blank.  Read only this file for setting nano's options, instead of
reading both the system-wide and the user's nanorc files.  Make the cursor
visible in the file browser (putting it on the highlighted item) and in the
help viewer.  Useful for braille users and people with poor vision.  Show a
summary of the available command-line options and exit.	 Automatically indent
a newly created line to the same number of tabs and/or spaces as the previous
line (or as the next line if the previous line is the beginning of a
paragraph).  Scroll the buffer contents per half-screen instead of per line.
Make the 'Cut Text' command (normally ^K) cut from the current cursor position
to the end of the line, instead of cutting the entire line.  Display line
numbers to the left of the text area.  (Any line with an anchor additionally
gets a mark in the margin.)  Enable mouse support, if available for your
system.	 When enabled, mouse clicks can be used to place the cursor, set the
mark (with a double click), and execute shortcuts.  The mouse works in the X
Window System, and on the console when gpm is running.	Text can still be
selected through dragging by holding down the Shift key.  Treat any name given
on the command line as a new file.  This allows nano to write to named pipes:
it starts with a blank buffer, and writes to the pipe when the user saves the
"file".	 This way nano can be used as an editor in combination with for
instance gpg without having to write sensitive data to disk first.  Change to
the given directory, and allow reading and writing files only in this
directory and its subdirectories.  Preserve the XOFF and XON sequences (^S and
^Q) so that they are caught by the terminal (stopping and resuming the
output).  Note that option -/ (--modernbindings) overrides this.  Display a
"scrollbar" on the righthand side of the edit window.  It shows the position
of the viewport in the buffer and how much of the buffer is covered by the
viewport.  Set the target width for justifying and automatic hard-wrapping at
this number of columns.	 If the value is 0 or less, wrapping occurs at the
width of the screen minus number columns, allowing the wrap point to vary
along with the width of the screen if the screen is resized.  The default
value is -8.  Use this command to perform spell checking and correcting,
instead of using the built-in corrector that calls hunspell(1) or spell(1).
Save a changed buffer without prompting (when exiting with ^X).	 Save a file
by default in Unix format.  This overrides nano's default behavior of saving a
file in the format that it had.	 (This option has no effect when you also use
--noconvert.)  Just view the file and disallow editing: read-only mode.	 This
mode allows the user to open also other files for viewing, unless --restricted
is given too.  Do not automatically hard-wrap the current line when it becomes
overlong.  This is the default.	 (This option is the opposite of -b
(--breaklonglines) — the last one given takes effect.)	Don't show the two
help lines at the bottom of the screen.	 Make Ctrl+Right and Ctrl+Delete stop
at word ends instead of beginnings.  List the names of the available syntaxes
and exit.  When neither the file's name nor its first line give a clue, try
using libmagic to determine the applicable syntax.  When a filename given on
the command line ends in a colon plus digits and this filename does not exist,
then snip the colon plus digits and understand the digits as a line number.
If the trimmed filename does not exist either, then repeat the process and
understand the obtained two numbers as line and column number.	But if the
doubly trimmed filename does not exist either, then forget the trimming and
accept the original filename as is.  To disable this colon parsing for some
file, use +1 or similar before the relevant filename.  Use the top-right
corner of the screen for showing some state flags: I when auto-indenting, M
when the mark is on, L when hard-wrapping (breaking long lines), R when
recording a macro, and S when soft-wrapping.  When the buffer is modified, a
star (*) is shown after the filename in the center of the title bar.  Suppress
the title bar and instead show information about the current buffer at the
bottom of the screen, in the space for the status bar.	In this "mini bar" the
filename is shown on the left, followed by an asterisk if the buffer has been
modified.  On the right are displayed the current line and column number, the
code of the character under the cursor (in Unicode format: U+xxxx), the same
flags as are shown by --stateflags, and a percentage that expresses how far
the cursor is into the file (linewise).	 When a file is loaded or saved, and
also when switching between buffers, the number of lines in the buffer is
displayed after the filename.  This number is cleared upon the next keystroke,
or replaced with an [i/n] counter when multiple buffers are open.  The line
plus column numbers and the character code are displayed only when
--constantshow is used, and can be toggled on and off with M-C.	 The state
flags are displayed only when --stateflags is used.  Hide all elements of the
interface (title bar, status bar, and help lines) and use all rows of the
terminal for showing the contents of the buffer.  The status bar appears only
when there is a significant message, and disappears after 1.5 seconds or upon
the next keystroke.  With M-Z the title bar plus status bar can be toggled.
With M-X the help lines.  Use key bindings similar to the ones that most
modern programs use: ^X cuts, ^C copies, ^V pastes, ^Z undoes, ^Y redoes, ^F
searches forward, ^G searches next, ^S saves, ^O opens a file, ^Q quits, and
(when the terminal permits) ^H shows help.  Furthermore, ^A sets the mark, ^R
makes replacements, ^D searches previous, ^P shows the position, ^T goes to a
line, ^W writes out a file, and ^E executes a command.	Note that this
overrides option -p (--preserve).

Several of the above options can be switched on and off also while nano is
running.  For example, M-L toggles the hard-wrapping of long lines, M-S
toggles soft-wrapping, M-N toggles line numbers, M-M toggles the mouse, M-I
auto-indentation, and M-X the help lines.  See at the end of the ^G help text
for a complete list.

The M-X toggle is special: it works in all menus except the help viewer and
the linter.  All other toggles work in the main menu only.

When --rcfile is given, nano reads just the specified file for setting its
options and syntaxes and key bindings.	Without that option, nano reads two
configuration files: first the system's nanorc (if it exists), and then the
user's nanorc (if it exists), either ~/.nanorc or $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/nano/nanorc
or ~/.config/nano/nanorc, whichever is encountered first.  See for more
information on the possible contents of those files.

See /usr/share/nano/ and /usr/share/nano/extra/ for available syntax-coloring
definitions.

Suspension is enabled by default, reachable via ^T^Z.  (If you want a plain ^Z
to suspend nano, add bind ^Z suspend main to your nanorc.)

At a Yes-No prompt, ^Y can be used for "Yes", ^N for "No", and ^A for "All".
These unlisted bindings work in any locale.

When you want to copy marked text from nano to the system's clipboard, see one
of the examples in the nanorc(5) man page.

If no alternative spell checker command is specified on the command line nor
in one of the nanorc files, nano checks the SPELL environment variable for
one.

In some cases nano tries to dump the buffer into an emergency file.  This
happens mainly if nano receives a SIGHUP or SIGTERM or runs out of memory.  It
writes the buffer into a file named nano.save if the buffer didn't have a name
already, or adds a ".save" suffix to the current filename.  If an emergency
file with that name already exists in the current directory, it adds ".save"
plus a number (e.g. ".save.1") to the current filename in order to make it
unique.	 In multibuffer mode, nano writes all open buffers to their respective
emergency files.

If you have any question about how to use nano in some specific situation, you
can ask on help-nano@gnu.org.

The recording and playback of keyboard macros works correctly only on a
terminal emulator, not on a Linux console (VT), because the latter does not by
default distinguish modified from unmodified arrow keys.

Please report any other bugs that you encounter via:

When nano crashes, it saves any modified buffers to emergency .save files.  If
you are able to reproduce the crash and you want to get a backtrace, define
the environment variable NANO_NOCATCH.



/usr/share/doc/nano/ (or equivalent on your system)


