networkctl - Query or modify the status of network links networkctl
[OPTIONS...] COMMAND [LINK...]	networkctl may be used to query or modify the
state of the network links as seen by systemd-networkd. Please refer to
systemd-networkd.service(8) for an introduction to the basic concepts,
functionality, and configuration syntax.  The following commands are
understood: list [PATTERN...] Show a list of existing links and their status.
If one or more PATTERNs are specified, only links matching one of them are
shown. If no further arguments are specified shows all links, otherwise just
the specified links. Produces output similar to:

IDX LINK	 TYPE	  OPERATIONAL SETUP
  1 lo		 loopback carrier     unmanaged
  2 eth0	 ether	  routable    configured
  3 virbr0	 ether	  no-carrier  unmanaged
  4 virbr0-nic	 ether	  off	      unmanaged

4 links listed.

The operational status is one of the following: missing The device is missing.

Added in version 245.  off The device is powered down.

Added in version 240.  no-carrier The device is powered up, but does not yet
have a carrier.

Added in version 240.  dormant The device has a carrier, but is not yet ready
for normal traffic.

Added in version 240.  degraded-carrier One of the bonding or bridge slave
network interfaces is in off, no-carrier, or dormant state, and the master
interface has no address.

Added in version 242.  carrier The link has carrier, or for bond or bridge
master, all bonding or bridge slave network interfaces are enslaved to the
master.

Added in version 240.  degraded The link has carrier and addresses valid on
the local link configured. For bond or bridge master this means that not all
slave network interfaces have carrier but at least one does.

Added in version 240.  enslaved The link has carrier and is enslaved to bond
or bridge master network interface.

Added in version 242.  routable The link has carrier and routable address
configured. For bond or bridge master it is not necessary for all slave
network interfaces to have carrier, but at least one must.

Added in version 240.

The setup status is one of the following: pending systemd-udevd(8) is still
processing the link, we do not yet know if we will manage it.

Added in version 240.  initialized systemd-udevd(8) has processed the link,
but we do not yet know if we will manage it.

Added in version 251.  configuring Configuration for the link is being
retrieved or the link is being configured.

Added in version 240.  configured Link has been configured successfully.

Added in version 240.  unmanaged systemd-networkd is not handling the link.

Added in version 240.  failed systemd-networkd failed to configure the link.

Added in version 240.  linger The link is gone, but has not yet been dropped
by systemd-networkd.

Added in version 240.

Added in version 219.  status [PATTERN...] Show information about the
specified links: type, state, kernel module driver, hardware and IP address,
configured DNS servers, etc. If one or more PATTERNs are specified, only links
matching one of them are shown.

When no links are specified, an overall network status is shown. Also see the
option --all.

Produces output similar to:

●	 State: routable
  Online state: online
       Address: 10.193.76.5 on eth0
		192.168.122.1 on virbr0
		169.254.190.105 on eth0
		fe80::5054:aa:bbbb:cccc on eth0
       Gateway: 10.193.11.1 (CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.) on eth0
	   DNS: 8.8.8.8
		8.8.4.4

In the overall network status, the online state depends on the individual
online state of all required links. Managed links are required for online by
default. In this case, the online state is one of the following: unknown All
links have unknown online status (i.e. there are no required links).

Added in version 249.  offline All required links are offline.

Added in version 249.  partial Some, but not all, required links are online.

Added in version 249.  online All required links are online.

Added in version 249.

Added in version 219.  lldp [PATTERN...] Show discovered LLDP (Link Layer
Discovery Protocol) neighbors. If one or more PATTERNs are specified only
neighbors on those interfaces are shown. Otherwise, shows discovered neighbors
on all interfaces. Note that for this feature to work, LLDP= must be turned on
for the specific interface, see systemd.network(5) for details.

Produces output similar to:

LINK	SYSTEM-NAME SYSTEM-DESCRIPTION CHASSIS-ID	 PORT-ID PORT-DESCRIPTION CAPS
enp0s25 GS1900	    -		       00:e0:4c:00:00:00 2	 Port #2	   ..b........

Capability Flags:
o - Other; p - Repeater;  b - Bridge; w - WLAN Access Point; r - Router;
t - Telephone; d - DOCSIS cable device; a - Station; c - Customer VLAN;
s - Service VLAN, m - Two-port MAC Relay (TPMR)

1 neighbor(s) listed.

Added in version 219.  label Show numerical address labels that can be used
for address selection. This is the same information that ip-addrlabel(8)
shows. See RFC 3484[1] for a discussion of address labels.

Produces output similar to:

Prefix/Prefixlen			  Label
	::/0				      1
    fc00::/7				      5
    fec0::/10				     11
    2002::/16				      2
    3ffe::/16				     12
 2001:10::/28				      7
    2001::/32				      6
::ffff:0.0.0.0/96			      4
	::/96				      3
       ::1/128				      0

Added in version 234.  delete DEVICE... Deletes virtual netdevs. Takes
interface name or index number.

Added in version 243.  up DEVICE... Bring devices up. Takes interface name or
index number.

Added in version 246.  down DEVICE... Bring devices down. Takes interface name
or index number.

Added in version 246.  renew DEVICE... Renew dynamic configurations e.g.
addresses received from DHCP server. Takes interface name or index number.

Added in version 244.  forcerenew DEVICE... Send a FORCERENEW message to all
connected clients, triggering DHCP reconfiguration. Takes interface name or
index number.

Added in version 246.  reconfigure DEVICE... Reconfigure network interfaces.
Takes interface name or index number. Note that this does not reload .netdev
or .network corresponding to the specified interface. So, if you edit config
files, it is necessary to call networkctl reload first to apply new settings.

Added in version 244.  reload Reload .netdev and .network files.

If a new or modified .netdev file is found, then the corresponding netdev is
created or updated, respectively. Note, if the corresponding interface already
exists, then some of new settings may not be applied. E.g., VLAN ID cannot be
changed after the interface was created, so changing [VLAN] Id= will not take
effect if the matching VLAN interface already exists. To apply such settings,
the interfaces need to be removed manually before reload. Also note that even
if a .netdev file is removed, systemd-networkd(8) does not remove the existing
netdev corresponding to the file.

If a new, modified, or removed .network file is found, then all interfaces
that matched the file are reconfigured.

Added in version 244.  edit FILE|@DEVICE...  Edit network configuration files,
which include .network, .netdev, and .link files. If no network config file
matching the given name is found, a new one will be created under /etc/ or
/run/, depending on whether --runtime is specified. Specially, if the name is
prefixed by "@", it will be treated as a network interface, and editing will
be performed on the network config files associated with it. Additionally, the
interface name can be suffixed with ":network" (default), ":link", or
":netdev", in order to choose the type of network config to operate on.

If --drop-in= is specified, edit the drop-in file instead of the main
configuration file. Unless --no-reload is specified, systemd-networkd(8) will
be reloaded after the edit of the .network or .netdev files finishes. The same
applies for .link files and systemd-udevd(8). Note that the changed link
settings are not automatically applied after reloading. To achieve that,
trigger uevents for the corresponding interface. Refer to systemd.link(5) for
more information.

If --stdin is specified, the new content will be read from standard input. In
this mode, the old content of the file is discarded.

Added in version 254.  cat [FILE|@DEVICE...] Show network configuration files.
This command honors the "@" prefix in a similar way as edit, with support for
an additional suffix ":all" for showing all types of configuration files
associated with the interface at once. When no argument is specified,
networkd.conf(5) and its drop-in files will be shown.

Added in version 254.  mask FILE...  Mask network configuration files, which
include .network, .netdev, and .link files. A symlink of the given name will
be created under /etc/ or /run/, depending on whether --runtime is specified,
that points to /dev/null. If a non-empty config file with the specified name
exists under the target directory or a directory with higher priority (e.g.
--runtime is used while an existing config resides in /etc/), the operation is
aborted.

This command honors --no-reload in the same way as edit.

Added in version 256.  unmask FILE...  Unmask network configuration files,
i.e. reverting the effect of mask. Note that this command operates regardless
of the scope of the directory, i.e.  --runtime is of no effect.

This command honors --no-reload in the same way as edit and mask.

Added in version 256.  persistent-storage BOOL Notify systemd-
networkd.service(8) that the persistent storage for the service is ready. This
is called by systemd-networkd-persistent-storage.service. Usually, this
command should not be called manually by users or administrators.

Added in version 256.  The following options are understood: -a --all Show all
links with status.

Added in version 219.  -s --stats Show link statistics with status.

Added in version 243.  -l, --full Do not ellipsize the output.

Added in version 245.  -n, --lines= When used with status, controls the number
of journal lines to show, counting from the most recent ones. Takes a positive
integer argument. Defaults to 10.

Added in version 245.  --drop-in=NAME When used with edit, edit the drop-in
file NAME instead of the main configuration file.

Added in version 254.  --no-reload When used with edit, mask, or unmask,
systemd-networkd.service(8) or systemd-udevd.service(8) will not be reloaded
after the operation finishes.

Added in version 254.  --runtime When used with edit or mask, operate on the
file under /run/ instead of /etc/.

Added in version 256.  --stdin When used with edit, the contents of the file
will be read from standard input and the editor will not be launched. In this
mode, the old contents of the file are automatically replaced. This is useful
to "edit" configuration from scripts, especially so that drop-in directories
are created and populated in one go.

Multiple drop-ins may be "edited" in this mode with --drop-in=, and the same
contents will be written to all of them. Otherwise, exactly one main
configuration file is expected.

Added in version 257.  --no-ask-password Do not query the user for
authentication for privileged operations.  --json=MODE Shows output formatted
as JSON. Expects one of "short" (for the shortest possible output without any
redundant whitespace or line breaks), "pretty" (for a pretty version of the
same, with indentation and line breaks) or "off" (to turn off JSON output, the
default).  -h, --help Print a short help text and exit.	 --version Print a
short version string and exit.	--no-legend Do not print the legend, i.e.
column headers and the footer with hints.  --no-pager Do not pipe output into
a pager.  On success, 0 is returned, a non-zero failure code otherwise.
systemd-networkd.service(8), systemd.network(5), systemd.netdev(5), ip(8) RFC
3484 https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3484


