nroff - format documents with for TTY (terminal) devices formats documents
written in the language for typewriter-like devices such as terminal
emulators.  GNU emulates the AT&T command using generates output via terminal
output driver, which needs to know the character encoding scheme used by the
device.	 Consequently, acceptable arguments to the option are and any others
are ignored.  If neither the environment variable nor the command-line option
(which overrides the environment variable) specifies a (valid) device,
consults the locale to select an appropriate output device.  It first tries
the program, then checks several locale-related environment variables; see
section “Environment” below.  If all of the foregoing fail, is implied.	 The
and options have the effects described in and imply and respectively; is also
interpreted directly by In addition, this implementation ignores the AT&T
options and (which are not implemented in The options and are documented in
causes to display the constructed command on the standard output stream, but
does not execute it.  and show version information about and the programs it
runs, while displays a usage message; all exit afterward.  exits with error if
there was a problem parsing its arguments, with if any of the options or were
specified, and with the status of otherwise.  Normally, the path separator in
environment variables ending with is the colon; this may vary depending on the
operating system.  For example, Windows uses a semicolon instead.  is a colon-
separated list of directories in which to search for the executable before
searching in If unset, is used.	 specifies the default output device for are
pattern-matched in this order for contents matching standard character
encodings supported by in the event no option is given and is unset, or the
values specified are invalid.  defines fallback definitions of special
characters.  These definitions more poorly optically approximate typeset
output than those of in favor of communicating semantic information.  loads it
automatically.	Pager programs like and may require command-line options to
correctly handle some output sequences; see


