openssl - OpenSSL command line program openssl command [ options ... ] [
parameters ... ] openssl no-XXX [ options ] openssl -help | -version OpenSSL
is a cryptography toolkit implementing the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) and
Transport Layer Security (TLS) network protocols and related cryptography
standards required by them.  The openssl program is a command line program for
using the various cryptography functions of OpenSSL's crypto library from the
shell.	It can be used for
 o  Creation and management of private keys, public keys and parameters
 o  Public key cryptographic operations
 o  Creation of X.509 certificates, CSRs and CRLs
 o  Calculation of Message Digests and Message Authentication Codes
 o  Encryption and Decryption with Ciphers
 o  SSL/TLS Client and Server Tests
 o  Handling of S/MIME signed or encrypted mail
 o  Timestamp requests, generation and verification
The openssl program provides a rich variety of commands (command in the
"SYNOPSIS" above).  Each command can have many options and argument
parameters, shown above as options and parameters.  Detailed documentation and
use cases for most standard subcommands are available (e.g., openssl-x509(1)).
The subcommand openssl-list(1) may be used to list subcommands.	 The command
no-XXX tests whether a command of the specified name is available.  If no
command named XXX exists, it returns 0 (success) and prints no-XXX; otherwise
it returns 1 and prints XXX.  In both cases, the output goes to stdout and
nothing is printed to stderr.  Additional command line arguments are always
ignored.  Since for each cipher there is a command of the same name, this
provides an easy way for shell scripts to test for the availability of ciphers
in the openssl program.	 (no-XXX is not able to detect pseudo-commands such as
quit, list, or no-XXX itself.)	Many commands use an external configuration
file for some or all of their arguments and have a -config option to specify
that file.  The default name of the file is openssl.cnf in the default
certificate storage area, which can be determined from the openssl-version(1)
command using the -d or -a option.  The environment variable OPENSSL_CONF can
be used to specify a different file location or to disable loading a
configuration (using the empty string).	 Among others, the configuration file
can be used to load modules and to specify parameters for generating
certificates and random numbers.  See config(5) for details.  Parse an ASN.1
sequence.  Certificate Authority (CA) Management.  Cipher Suite Description
Determination.	CMS (Cryptographic Message Syntax) command.  Certificate
Revocation List (CRL) Management.  CRL to PKCS#7 Conversion.  Message Digest
calculation. MAC calculations are superseded by openssl-mac(1).	 Generation
and Management of Diffie-Hellman Parameters. Superseded by openssl-genpkey(1)
and openssl-pkeyparam(1).  DSA Data Management.	 DSA Parameter Generation and
Management. Superseded by openssl-genpkey(1) and openssl-pkeyparam(1).	EC
(Elliptic curve) key processing.  EC parameter manipulation and generation.
Encryption, decryption, and encoding.  Engine (loadable module) information
and manipulation.  Error Number to Error String Conversion.  Generation of DSA
Private Key from Parameters. Superseded by openssl-genpkey(1) and
openssl-pkey(1).  Generation of Private Key or Parameters.  Generation of RSA
Private Key. Superseded by openssl-genpkey(1).	Display information about a
command's options.  Display diverse information built into the OpenSSL
libraries.  Key Derivation Functions.  List algorithms and features.  Message
Authentication Code Calculation.  Create or examine a Netscape certificate
sequence.  Online Certificate Status Protocol command.	Generation of hashed
passwords.  PKCS#12 Data Management.  PKCS#7 Data Management.  PKCS#8 format
private key conversion command.	 Public and private key management.  Public
key algorithm parameter management.  Public key algorithm cryptographic
operation command.  Compute prime numbers.  Generate pseudo-random bytes.
Create symbolic links to certificate and CRL files named by the hash values.
PKCS#10 X.509 Certificate Signing Request (CSR) Management.  RSA key
management.  RSA command for signing, verification, encryption, and
decryption. Superseded by  openssl-pkeyutl(1).	This implements a generic
SSL/TLS client which can establish a transparent connection to a remote server
speaking SSL/TLS. It's intended for testing purposes only and provides only
rudimentary interface functionality but internally uses mostly all
functionality of the OpenSSL ssl library.  This implements a generic SSL/TLS
server which accepts connections from remote clients speaking SSL/TLS. It's
intended for testing purposes only and provides only rudimentary interface
functionality but internally uses mostly all functionality of the OpenSSL ssl
library.  It provides both an own command line oriented protocol for testing
SSL functions and a simple HTTP response facility to emulate an SSL/TLS-aware
webserver.  SSL Connection Timer.  SSL Session Data Management.	 S/MIME mail
processing.  Algorithm Speed Measurement.  SPKAC printing and generating
command.  Maintain SRP password file. This command is deprecated.  Command to
list and display certificates, keys, CRLs, etc.	 Time Stamping Authority
command.  X.509 Certificate Verification.  See also the
openssl-verification-options(1) manual page.  OpenSSL Version Information.
X.509 Certificate Data Management.  BLAKE2b-512 Digest BLAKE2s-256 Digest MD2
Digest MD4 Digest MD5 Digest MDC2 Digest RMD-160 Digest SHA-1 Digest SHA-2 224
Digest SHA-2 256 Digest SHA-2 384 Digest SHA-2 512 Digest SHA-3 224 Digest
SHA-3 256 Digest SHA-3 384 Digest SHA-3 512 Digest KECCAK 224 Digest KECCAK
256 Digest KECCAK 384 Digest KECCAK 512 Digest SHA-3 SHAKE128 Digest SHA-3
SHAKE256 Digest SM3 Digest The following aliases provide convenient access to
the most used encodings and ciphers.  Depending on how OpenSSL was configured
and built, not all ciphers listed here may be present. See openssl-enc(1) for
more information.  AES-128 Cipher AES-192 Cipher AES-256 Cipher Aria-128
Cipher Aria-192 Cipher Aria-256 Cipher Base64 Encoding Blowfish Cipher
Camellia-128 Cipher Camellia-192 Cipher Camellia-256 Cipher CAST Cipher CAST5
Cipher Chacha20 Cipher DES Cipher Triple-DES Cipher IDEA Cipher RC2 Cipher RC4
Cipher RC5 Cipher SEED Cipher SM4 Cipher Details of which options are
available depend on the specific command.  This section describes some common
options with common behavior.  These options can be specified without a
command specified to get help or version information.  Provides a terse
summary of all options.	 For more detailed information, each command supports
a -help option.	 Accepts --help as well.  Provides a terse summary of the
openssl program version.  For more detailed information see
openssl-version(1).  Accepts --version as well.	 If an option takes an
argument, the "type" of argument is also given.	 This terminates the list of
options. It is mostly useful if any filename parameters start with a minus
sign:

 openssl verify [flags...] -- -cert1.pem...
See openssl-format-options(1) for manual page.	See the
openssl-passphrase-options(1) manual page.  Prior to OpenSSL 1.1.1, it was
common for applications to store information about the state of the
random-number generator in a file that was loaded at startup and rewritten
upon exit. On modern operating systems, this is generally no longer necessary
as OpenSSL will seed itself from a trusted entropy source provided by the
operating system. These flags are still supported for special platforms or
circumstances that might require them.	It is generally an error to use the
same seed file more than once and every use of -rand should be paired with
-writerand.  A file or files containing random data used to seed the random
number generator.  Multiple files can be specified separated by an
OS-dependent character.	 The separator is ";" for MS-Windows, "," for OpenVMS,
and ":" for all others. Another way to specify multiple files is to repeat
this flag with different filenames.  Writes the seed data to the specified
file upon exit.	 This file can be used in a subsequent command invocation.
See the openssl-verification-options(1) manual page.  See the
openssl-namedisplay-options(1) manual page.  Several commands use SSL, TLS, or
DTLS. By default, the commands use TLS and clients will offer the lowest and
highest protocol version they support, and servers will pick the highest
version that the client offers that is also supported by the server.  The
options below can be used to limit which protocol versions are used, and
whether TCP (SSL and TLS) or UDP (DTLS) is used.  Note that not all protocols
and flags may be available, depending on how OpenSSL was built.	 These options
require or disable the use of the specified SSL or TLS protocols.  When a
specific TLS version is required, only that version will be offered or
accepted.  Only one specific protocol can be given and it cannot be combined
with any of the no_ options.  The no_* options do not work with s_time and
ciphers commands but work with s_client and s_server commands.	These options
specify to use DTLS instead of TLS.  With -dtls, clients will negotiate any
supported DTLS protocol version.  Use the -dtls1 or -dtls1_2 options to
support only DTLS1.0 or DTLS1.2, respectively.	Load the engine identified by
id and use all the methods it implements (algorithms, key storage, etc.),
unless specified otherwise in the command-specific documentation or it is
configured to do so, as described in "Engine Configuration" in config(5).

The engine will be used for key ids specified with -key and similar options
when an option like -keyform engine is given.

A special case is the "loader_attic" engine, which is meant just for internal
OpenSSL testing purposes and supports loading keys, parameters, certificates,
and CRLs from files.  When this engine is used, files with such credentials
are read via this engine.  Using the "file:" schema is optional; a plain file
(path) name will do.  Options specifying keys, like -key and similar, can use
the generic OpenSSL engine key loading URI scheme "org.openssl.engine:" to
retrieve private keys and public keys.	The URI syntax is as follows, in
simplified form:
    org.openssl.engine:{engineid}:{keyid}
Where "{engineid}" is the identity/name of the engine, and "{keyid}" is a key
identifier that's acceptable by that engine.  For example, when using an
engine that interfaces against a PKCS#11 implementation, the generic key URI
would be something like this (this happens to be an example for the PKCS#11
engine that's part of OpenSC):
    -key org.openssl.engine:pkcs11:label_some-private-key
As a third possibility, for engines and providers that have implemented their
own OSSL_STORE_LOADER(3), "org.openssl.engine:" should not be necessary.  For
a PKCS#11 implementation that has implemented such a loader, the PKCS#11 URI
as defined in RFC 7512 should be possible to use directly:
    -key pkcs11:object=some-private-key;pin-value=1234
Load and initialize the provider identified by name. The name can be also a
path to the provider module. In that case the provider name will be the
specified path and not just the provider module name.  Interpretation of
relative paths is platform specific. The configured "MODULESDIR" path,
OPENSSL_MODULES environment variable, or the path specified by -provider-path
is prepended to relative paths.	 See provider(7) for a more detailed
description.  Specifies the search path that is to be used for looking for
providers.  Equivalently, the OPENSSL_MODULES environment variable may be set.
Set configuration parameter key to value val in provider name (optional), if
name is not specified, the setting will be applied to all loaded providers.
This option can be specified multiple times, to set multiple parameters.
Options that specify nondefault providers to load should precede this option
if the setting is intended to apply to the to be loaded providers.  Parameters
that only affect provider initialisation must, for now, be set in the
configuration file, only parameters that are also queried as needed later have
any affect when set via this interface.	 Only UTF8-string-valued parameters
are supported.	See the documentation of the specific provider and associated
algorithms for any supported parameters.  Specifies the property query clause
to be used when fetching algorithms from the loaded providers.	See
property(7) for a more detailed description.  The OpenSSL libraries can take
some configuration parameters from the environment.  For information about all
environment variables used by the OpenSSL libraries, such as OPENSSL_CONF,
OPENSSL_MODULES, and OPENSSL_TRACE, see openssl-env(7).	 For information about
the use of environment variables in configuration, see "ENVIRONMENT" in
config(5).  For information about specific commands, see openssl-engine(1),
openssl-rehash(1), and tsget(1).  For information about querying or specifying
CPU architecture flags, see OPENSSL_ia32cap(3), OPENSSL_s390xcap(3) and
OPENSSL_riscvcap(3).  openssl-asn1parse(1), openssl-ca(1), openssl-ciphers(1),
openssl-cms(1), openssl-crl(1), openssl-crl2pkcs7(1), openssl-dgst(1),
openssl-dhparam(1), openssl-dsa(1), openssl-dsaparam(1), openssl-ec(1),
openssl-ecparam(1), openssl-enc(1), openssl-engine(1), openssl-errstr(1),
openssl-gendsa(1), openssl-genpkey(1), openssl-genrsa(1), openssl-kdf(1),
openssl-list(1), openssl-mac(1), openssl-nseq(1), openssl-ocsp(1),
openssl-passwd(1), openssl-pkcs12(1), openssl-pkcs7(1), openssl-pkcs8(1),
openssl-pkey(1), openssl-pkeyparam(1), openssl-pkeyutl(1), openssl-prime(1),
openssl-rand(1), openssl-rehash(1), openssl-req(1), openssl-rsa(1),
openssl-rsautl(1), openssl-s_client(1), openssl-s_server(1),
openssl-s_time(1), openssl-sess_id(1), openssl-smime(1), openssl-speed(1),
openssl-spkac(1), openssl-srp(1), openssl-storeutl(1), openssl-ts(1),
openssl-verify(1), openssl-version(1), openssl-x509(1), config(5), crypto(7),
openssl-env(7).	 ssl(7), x509v3_config(5) The list -XXX-algorithms options
were added in OpenSSL 1.0.0; For notes on the availability of other commands,
see their individual manual pages.  The -issuer_checks option is deprecated as
of OpenSSL 1.1.0 and is silently ignored.  The -xcertform and -xkeyform
options are obsolete since OpenSSL 3.0 and have no effect.  The interactive
mode, which could be invoked by running "openssl" with no further arguments,
was removed in OpenSSL 3.0, and running that program with no arguments is now
equivalent to "openssl help".  Copyright 2000-2025 The OpenSSL Project
Authors. All Rights Reserved.  Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the
"License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You can obtain a copy in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.


