osinfo-db-export - Export to a osinfo database archive osinfo-db-export
[OPTIONS...] [ARCHIVE-FILE] The osinfo-db-export tool will create an osinfo
database archive file containing the content from one of the standard local
database locations: This is the primary system-wide database location,
intended for use by operating system vendors distributing database files in
the native package format.  This is the secondary system-wide database
location, intended for use by system administrators wishing to provide an
updated database for all users.	 This is the user private database location,
intended for use by unprivileged local users wishing to provide applications
they use with an updated database.  If run by a privileged account (ie root),
the local database location will be used by default, otherwise the user
location will be used.	If no ARCHIVE-FILE path is given, an automatically
generated filename will be used, taking the format osinfo-db-$VERSION.tar.xz.
Override the default behaviour to force archiving files from the user database
location.  Override the default behaviour to force archiving files from the
local database location.  Override the default behaviour to force archiving
files from the system database location.  Override the default behaviour to
force archiving files from the custom directory PATH.  Prefix the database
location with the root directory given by "PATH". This is useful when wishing
to archive files that are in a chroot environment or equivalent.  Set the
version string for the files in the archive to VERSION. If this argument is
not given, the version will be set to the current date in the format YYYYMMDD.
Add "LICENSE-FILE" to the generated archive as an entry named "LICENSE".
Display verbose progress information when archiving files The exit status will
be 0 if all files were packed successfully, or 1 if at least one file could
not be packed into the archive.	 "osinfo-db-import(1)", "osinfo-db-path(1)"
Daniel P. Berrange <berrange@redhat.com> Copyright (C) 2016 Red Hat, Inc.
"osinfo-db-export" is distributed under the terms of the GNU LGPL v2+ license.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE


