osinfo-db-import - Import an osinfo database archive osinfo-db-import
[OPTIONS...] [ARCHIVE-FILE] The osinfo-db-import tool will take an osinfo
database archive and extract its contents into one of the standard database
locations on the current host: This is the primary system-wide database
location, intended for use by operating system vendors distributing database
files in the native package format.  This is the secondary system-wide
database location, intended for use by system administrators wishing to
provide an updated database for all users.  This is the user private database
location, intended for use by unprivileged local users wishing to provide
applications they use with an updated database.	 If run by a privileged
account (ie root), the local database location will be used by default,
otherwise the user location will be used.  When passing a non local
ARCHIVE-FILE, only http:// and https:// protocols are supported.  With no
ARCHIVE-FILE, or when ARCHIVE-FILE is -, read standard input.  Override the
default behaviour to force installation into the user database location.
Override the default behaviour to force installation into the local database
location.  Override the default behaviour to force installation into the
system database location.  Override the default behaviour to force
installation into the custom directory PATH.  Prefix the installation location
with the root directory given by "PATH". This is useful when wishing to
install into a chroot environment or equivalent.  Downloads the latest
osinfo-db release from libosinfo's official releases website and installs it
in the desired location.  The latest osinfo-db release is only downloaded and
installed when it's newer than the one installed in the desired location.
Note that this option is mutually exclusive with '--nightly'.  Downloads the
nightly (unreleased) osinfo-db build from libosinfo's website and installs it
in the desired location.  Unlike with '--latest' with this option the nightly
archive always downloaded and installed regardless of the version installed in
the desired location. Note that this option is mutually exclusive with
'--latest'.  Display verbose progress information when installing files The
exit status will be 0 if all files were installed successfully, or 1 if at
least one file could not be installed.	"osinfo-db-export(1)",
"osinfo-db-path(1)" Daniel P. Berrange <berrange@redhat.com> Copyright (C)
2016 Red Hat, Inc.  "osinfo-db-import" is distributed under the terms of the
GNU LGPL v2+ license. This is free software; see the source for copying
conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE


