passwd - change user password passwd [options] [LOGIN] The passwd command
changes passwords for user accounts. A regular user can only change the
password for their own account, while the superuser can change the password
for any account. The passwd also changes the account or associated password
validity period.  If the account has a non-empty password, the user is first
prompted to enter their current password. The entered password is encrypted
and compared to the stored value. The user has only one attempt to enter the
correct password. The superuser can bypass this step to allow changing
forgotten passwords.  After the password has been entered, password aging
information is checked to determine if the user is permitted to change the
password at this time. If not, passwd refuses to change the password and
exits.	The user is then prompted twice for a replacement password. The second
entry is compared against the first and both are required to match for the
password to be changed.	 Then, the password is tested for complexity.  passwd
rejects passwords that do not meet the complexity requirements. Do not include
the system default erase or kill characters.  The security of a password
depends on the strength of the encryption algorithm and the size of the key
space. The legacy UNIX System encryption method is based on the NBS DES
algorithm. More recent methods are now recommended (see ENCRYPT_METHOD). The
size of the key space depends on the randomness of the selected password.
Compromises in password security normally result from careless password
selection or handling. For this reason, you should not select a password which
appears in a dictionary or one that must be written down. The password should
also not be a proper name, your license number, birth date, or street address.
Any of these may be used as guesses to violate system security.	 As a general
guideline, passwords should be long and random. It's fine to use simple
character sets, such as passwords consisting only of lowercase letters, if
that helps memorizing longer passwords. For a password consisting only of
lowercase English letters randomly chosen, and a length of 32, there are 26^32
(approximately 2^150) different possible combinations. Being an exponential
equation, it's apparent that the exponent (the length) is more important than
the base (the size of the character set).  You can find advice on how to
choose a strong password on https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Password_strength
The options which apply to the passwd command are: -a, --all This option can
be used only with -S and causes show status for all users.  -d, --delete
Deletes a user's password, making it empty. This command sets the account to
be passwordless.  -e, --expire Immediately expire an account's password. This
in effect can force a user to change their password at the user's next login.
-h, --help Display help message and exit.  -i, --inactive INACTIVE This option
is used to disable an account after the password has been expired for a number
of days. After a user account has had an expired password for INACTIVE days,
the user may no longer sign on to the account.	-k, --keep-tokens Indicate
password change should be performed only for expired authentication tokens
(passwords). The user wishes to keep their non-expired tokens as before.  -l,
--lock Lock the password of the named account. This option disables a password
by changing it to a value which matches no possible encrypted value (it adds a
´!´ at the beginning of the password).

Note that this does not disable the account. The user may still be able to
login using another authentication token (e.g. an SSH key). To disable the
account, administrators should use usermod --expiredate 1 (this sets the
account's expire date to 1970-01-02).

Users with a locked password are not allowed to change their password.	-n,
--mindays MIN_DAYS Set the minimum number of days between password changes to
MIN_DAYS. A value of zero for this field indicates that the user may change
their password at any time.  -q, --quiet Quiet mode.  -r,
--repository REPOSITORY change password in REPOSITORY repository -R,
--root CHROOT_DIR Apply changes in the CHROOT_DIR directory and use the
configuration files from the CHROOT_DIR directory. Only absolute paths are
supported.  -P, --prefix PREFIX_DIR Apply changes to configuration files under
the root filesystem found under the directory PREFIX_DIR. This option does not
chroot and is intended for preparing a cross-compilation target. Some
limitations: NIS and LDAP users/groups are not verified. No PAM support. No
SELINUX support.  -S, --status Display account status information. The status
information consists of 7 fields. The first field is the user's login name.
The second field indicates if the user account has a locked password (L), has
no password (NP), or has a usable password (P). The third field gives the date
of the last password change. The next four fields are the minimum age, maximum
age, warning period, and inactivity period for the password. These ages are
expressed in days.  -u, --unlock Unlock the password of the named account.
This option re-enables a password by changing the password back to its
previous value (to the value before using the -l option).  -w,
--warndays WARN_DAYS Set the number of days of warning before a password
change is required. The WARN_DAYS option is the number of days prior to
password expiration during which the user is warned that their password is
about to expire.  -x, --maxdays MAX_DAYS Set the maximum number of days a
password remains valid. After MAX_DAYS, the password is required to be
changed.

Passing the number -1 as MAX_DAYS will remove checking a password's validity.
-s, --stdin This option is used to indicate that passwd should read the new
password from standard input, which can be a pipe.  Password complexity
checking may vary from site to site. The user is urged to select a password as
complex as he or she feels comfortable with.  Users may not be able to change
their password on a system if NIS is enabled and they are not logged into the
NIS server.  passwd uses PAM to authenticate users and to change their
passwords.  /etc/passwd User account information.  /etc/shadow Secure user
account information.  /etc/pam.d/passwd PAM configuration for passwd.  The
passwd command exits with the following values: 0 success 1 permission denied
2 invalid combination of options 3 unexpected failure, nothing done 4
unexpected failure, passwd file missing 5 passwd file busy, try again 6
invalid argument to option 10 an error was returned by pam(3) chpasswd(8),
makepasswd(1), passwd(5), shadow(5), usermod(8).  The following web page
comically (yet correctly) compares the strength of two different methods for
choosing a password: "https://xkcd.com/936/"


