patch - apply a diff file to an original

but usually just

takes a patch file containing a difference listing produced by the program and
applies those differences to one or more original files, producing patched
versions.  Normally the patched versions are put in place of the originals.
Backups can be made; see the or option.	 The names of the files to be patched
are usually taken from the patch file, but if there's just one file to be
patched it can be specified on the command line as Upon startup, patch
attempts to determine the type of the diff listing, unless overruled by a -c
(--context), -e (--ed), -n (--normal), or -u (--unified) option.  Context
diffs (old-style, new-style, and unified) and normal diffs are applied by the
program itself, while diffs are simply fed to the editor via a pipe.  tries to
skip any leading garbage, apply the diff, and then skip any trailing garbage.
Thus you could feed an email message containing a diff listing to and it
should work.  If the entire diff is indented by a consistent amount, if lines
end in CRLF, or if a diff is encapsulated one or more times by prepending "- "
to lines starting with "-" as specified by Internet RFC 934, this is taken
into account.  After removing indenting or encapsulation, lines beginning with
are ignored, as they are considered to be comments.  With context diffs, and
to a lesser extent with normal diffs, can detect when the line numbers
mentioned in the patch are incorrect, and attempts to find the correct place
to apply each hunk of the patch.  As a first guess, it takes the line number
mentioned for the hunk, plus or minus any offset used in applying the previous
hunk.  If that is not the correct place, scans both forwards and backwards for
a set of lines matching the context given in the hunk.	First looks for a
place where all lines of the context match.  If no such place is found, and
it's a context diff, and the maximum fuzz factor is set to 1 or more, then
another scan takes place ignoring the first and last line of context.  If that
fails, and the maximum fuzz factor is set to 2 or more, the first two and last
two lines of context are ignored, and another scan is made.  (The default
maximum fuzz factor is 2.)  Hunks with less prefix context than suffix context
(after applying fuzz) must apply at the start of the file if their first line
number is 1.  Hunks with more prefix context than suffix context (after
applying fuzz) must apply at the end of the file.  If cannot find a place to
install that hunk of the patch, it puts the hunk out to a reject file, which
normally is the name of the output file plus a suffix, or if would generate a
file name that is too long (if even appending the single character makes the
file name too long, then replaces the file name's last character).  The
rejected hunk comes out in unified or context diff format.  If the input was a
normal diff, many of the contexts are simply null.  The line numbers on the
hunks in the reject file may be different than in the patch file: they reflect
the approximate location patch thinks the failed hunks belong in the new file
rather than the old one.  As each hunk is completed, you are told if the hunk
failed, and if so which line (in the new file) thought the hunk should go on.
If the hunk is installed at a different line from the line number specified in
the diff, you are told the offset.  A single large offset indicate that a hunk
was installed in the wrong place.  You are also told if a fuzz factor was used
to make the match, in which case you should also be slightly suspicious.  If
the option is given, you are also told about hunks that match exactly.	If no
original file is specified on the command line, tries to figure out from the
leading garbage what the name of the file to edit is, using the following
rules.	First, takes an ordered list of candidate file names as follows: If
the header is that of a context diff, takes the old and new file names in the
header.	 A name is ignored if it does not have enough slashes to satisfy the
or option.  The name is also ignored.  If there is an line in the leading
garbage and if either the old and new names are both absent or if is
conforming to POSIX, takes the name in the line.  For the purpose of the
following rules, the candidate file names are considered to be in the order
(old, new, index), regardless of the order that they appear in the header.
Then selects a file name from the candidate list as follows: If some of the
named files exist, selects the first name if conforming to POSIX, and the best
name otherwise.	 If is not ignoring RCS, ClearCase, Perforce, and SCCS (see
the or option), and no named files exist but an RCS, ClearCase, Perforce, or
SCCS master is found, selects the first named file with an RCS, ClearCase,
Perforce, or SCCS master.  If no named files exist, no RCS, ClearCase,
Perforce, or SCCS master was found, some names are given, is not conforming to
POSIX, and the patch appears to create a file, selects the best name requiring
the creation of the fewest directories.	 If no file name results from the
above heuristics, you are asked for the name of the file to patch, and selects
that name.  To determine the of a nonempty list of file names, first takes all
the names with the fewest path name components; of those, it then takes all
the names with the shortest basename; of those, it then takes all the shortest
names; finally, it takes the first remaining name.  Additionally, if the
leading garbage contains a line, takes the first word from the prerequisites
line (normally a version number) and checks the original file to see if that
word can be found.  If not, asks for confirmation before proceeding.  The
upshot of all this is that you should be able to run something like the
following shell command:

patch -d /usr/src/local/blurfl

and patch a file in the directory directly from a patch that is read from
standard input.	 If the patch file contains more than one patch, tries to
apply each of them as if they came from separate patch files.  This means,
among other things, that it is assumed that the name of the file to patch must
be determined for each diff listing, and that the garbage before each diff
listing contains interesting things such as file names and revision level, as
mentioned previously.  -b  or  --backup Make backup files.  That is, when
patching a file, rename or copy the original instead of removing it.  See the
or option for details about how backup file names are determined.  Back up a
file if the patch does not match the file exactly and if backups are not
otherwise requested.  This is the default unless is conforming to POSIX.  Do
not back up a file if the patch does not match the file exactly and if backups
are not otherwise requested.  This is the default if is conforming to POSIX.
-B pref	 or  --prefix=pref Use the method to determine backup file names (see
the or option), and append to a file name when generating its backup file
name.  For example, with the simple backup file name for is --binary Write all
files in binary mode, except for standard output and When reading, disable the
heuristic for transforming CRLF line endings into LF line endings.  This
option is needed on POSIX systems when applying patches generated on non-POSIX
systems to non-POSIX files.  (On POSIX systems, file reads and writes never
transform line endings. On Windows, reads and writes do transform line endings
by default, and patches should be generated by when line endings are
significant.)  -c  or  --context Interpret the patch file as a ordinary
context diff.  -d dir  or  --directory=dir Change to the directory
immediately, before doing anything else.  -D define  or	 --ifdef=define Use
the construct to mark changes, with as the differentiating symbol.  Print the
results of applying the patches without actually changing any files.  -e  or
--ed Interpret the patch file as an script.  -E	 or  --remove-empty-files
Remove output files that are empty after the patches have been applied.
Normally this option is unnecessary, since can examine the timestamps on the
header to determine whether a file should exist after patching.	 However, if
the input is not a context diff or if is conforming to POSIX, does not remove
empty patched files unless this option is given.  When removes a file, it also
attempts to remove any empty ancestor directories.  -f	or  --force Assume
that the user knows exactly what he or she is doing, and do not ask any
questions.  Skip patches whose headers do not say which file is to be patched;
patch files even though they have the wrong version for the line in the patch;
and assume that patches are not reversed even if they look like they are.
This option does not suppress commentary; use for that.	 -F num	 or
--fuzz=num Set the maximum fuzz factor.	 This option only applies to diffs
that have context, and causes to ignore up to that many lines of context in
looking for places to install a hunk.  Note that a larger fuzz factor
increases the odds of a faulty patch.  The default fuzz factor is 2.  A fuzz
factor greater than or equal to the number of lines of context in the context
diff, ordinarily 3, ignores all context.  -g num  or  --get=num This option
controls actions when a file is under RCS or SCCS control, and does not exist
or is read-only and matches the default version, or when a file is under
ClearCase or Perforce control and does not exist.  If is positive, gets (or
checks out) the file from the revision control system; if zero, ignores RCS,
ClearCase, Perforce, and SCCS and does not get the file; and if negative, asks
the user whether to get the file.  The default value of this option is given
by the value of the environment variable if it is set; if not, the default
value is zero.	Print a summary of options and exit.  -i patchfile  or
--input=patchfile Read the patch from If is read from standard input, the
default.  -l  or  --ignore-whitespace Match patterns loosely, in case tabs or
spaces have been munged in your files.	Any sequence of one or more blanks in
the patch file matches any sequence in the original file, and sequences of
blanks at the ends of lines are ignored.  Normal characters must still match
exactly.  Each line of the context must still match a line in the original
file.  --merge or --merge=merge or --merge=diff3 Merge a patch file into the
original files similar to diff3(1) or merge(1).	 If a conflict is found, patch
outputs a warning and brackets the conflict with <<<<<<< and >>>>>>> lines.  A
typical conflict will look like this:
<<<<<<<
lines from the original file
|||||||
original lines from the patch
=======
new lines from the patch
>>>>>>>
The optional argument of --merge determines the output format for conflicts:
the diff3 format shows the ||||||| section with the original lines from the
patch; in the merge format, this section is missing.  The merge format is the
default.

This option implies --forward and does not take the --fuzz=num option into
account.  -n  or  --normal Interpret the patch file as a normal diff.  -N  or
--forward When a patch does not apply, patch usually checks if the patch looks
like it has been applied already by trying to reverse-apply the first hunk.
The --forward option prevents that.  See also -o outfile  or  --output=outfile
Send output to instead of patching files in place.  Do not use this option if
is one of the files to be patched.  When outfile is -, send output to standard
output, and send any messages that would usually go to standard output to
standard error.	 -pnum	or  --strip=num Strip the smallest prefix containing
leading slashes from each file name found in the patch file.  A sequence of
one or more adjacent slashes is counted as a single slash.  This controls how
file names found in the patch file are treated, in case you keep your files in
a different directory than the person who sent out the patch.  For example,
supposing the file name in the patch file was

/u/howard/src/blurfl/blurfl.c

setting gives the entire file name unmodified, gives

u/howard/src/blurfl/blurfl.c

without the leading slash, gives

blurfl/blurfl.c

and not specifying at all just gives you blurfl.c.  Whatever you end up with
is looked for either in the current directory, or the directory specified by
the option.  Conform more strictly to the POSIX standard, as follows.  Take
the first existing file from the list (old, new, index) when intuiting file
names from diff headers.  Do not remove files that are empty after patching.
Do not ask whether to get files from RCS, ClearCase, Perforce, or SCCS.
Require that all options precede the files in the command line.	 Do not backup
files when there is a mismatch.	 Use style to quote output names.  The should
be one of the following: Output names as-is.  Quote names for the shell if
they contain shell metacharacters or would cause ambiguous output.  Quote
names for the shell, even if they would normally not require quoting.  Quote
names as for a C language string.  Quote as with except omit the surrounding
double-quote characters.  You can specify the default value of the option with
the environment variable If that environment variable is not set, the default
value is -r rejectfile	or  --reject-file=rejectfile Put rejects into instead
of the default file.  When rejectfile is -, discard rejects.  -R  or
--reverse Assume that this patch was created with the old and new files
swapped.  (Yes, I'm afraid that does happen occasionally, human nature being
what it is.)  attempts to swap each hunk around before applying it.  Rejects
come out in the swapped format.	 The option does not work with diff scripts
because there is too little information to reconstruct the reverse operation.

If the first hunk of a patch fails, reverses the hunk to see if it can be
applied that way.  If it can, you are asked if you want to have the option
set.  If it can't, the patch continues to be applied normally.	(Note: this
method cannot detect a reversed patch if it is a normal diff and if the first
command is an append (i.e. it should have been a delete) since appends always
succeed, due to the fact that a null context matches anywhere.	Luckily, most
patches add or change lines rather than delete them, so most reversed normal
diffs begin with a delete, which fails, triggering the heuristic.)
--read-only=behavior Behave as requested when trying to modify a read-only
file: ignore the potential problem, warn about it (the default), or fail.
--reject-format=format Produce reject files in the specified format (either
context or unified).  Without this option, rejected hunks come out in unified
diff format if the input patch was of that format, otherwise in ordinary
context diff form.  -s	or  --silent  or  --quiet Work silently, unless an
error occurs.  --follow-symlinks When looking for input files, follow symbolic
links.	Replaces the symbolic links, instead of modifying the files the
symbolic links point to.  Git-style patches to symbolic links will no longer
apply.	This option exists for backwards compatibility with previous versions
of patch; its use is discouraged.  -t  or  --batch Suppress questions like but
make some different assumptions: skip patches whose headers do not contain
file names (the same as -f); skip patches for which the file has the wrong
version for the line in the patch; and assume that patches are reversed if
they look like they are.  -T  or  --set-time Set the modification and access
times of patched files from timestamps given in context diff headers.  Unless
specified in the timestamps, assume that the context diff headers use local
time.

Use of this option with timestamps that do not include time zones is not
recommended, because patches using local time cannot easily be used by people
in other time zones, and because local timestamps are ambiguous when local
clocks move backwards during daylight-saving time adjustments.	Make sure that
timestamps include time zones, or generate patches with UTC and use the or
option instead.	 -u  or	 --unified Interpret the patch file as a unified
context diff.  -v  or  --version Print out revision header and patch level,
and exit.  -V method  or  --version-control=method Use to determine backup
file names.  The method can also be given by the (or, if that's not set, the
environment variable, which is overridden by this option.  The method does not
affect whether backup files are made; it affects only the names of any backup
files that are made.

The value of is like the GNU Emacs version-control variable; also recognizes
synonyms that are more descriptive.  The valid values for are (unique
abbreviations are accepted): existing  or  nil Make numbered backups of files
that already have them, otherwise simple backups.  This is the default.
numbered  or  t Make numbered backups.	The numbered backup file name for is
where is the version number.  simple  or  never Make simple backups.  The or
or and or options specify the simple backup file name.	If none of these
options are given, then a simple backup suffix is used; it is the value of the
environment variable if set, and is otherwise.	With numbered or simple
backups, if the backup file name is too long, the backup suffix is used
instead; if even appending would make the name too long, then replaces the
last character of the file name.  --verbose Output extra information about the
work being done.  -x num  or  --debug=num Set internal debugging flags of
interest only to patchers.  -Y pref  or	 --basename-prefix=pref Use the method
to determine backup file names (see the or option), and prefix to the basename
of a file name when generating its backup file name.  For example, with the
simple backup file name for is -z suffix  or  --suffix=suffix Use the method
to determine backup file names (see the or option), and use as the suffix.
For example, with the backup file name for is -Z  or  --set-utc Set the
modification and access times of patched files from timestamps given in
context diff headers. Unless specified in the timestamps, assume that the
context diff headers use Coordinated Universal Time (UTC, often known as GMT).
Also see the or option.

The or and or options normally refrain from setting a file's time if the
file's original time does not match the time given in the patch header, or if
its contents do not match the patch exactly.  However, if the or option is
given, the file time is set regardless.

Due to the limitations of output format, these options cannot update the times
of files whose contents have not changed.  Also, if you use these options, you
should remove (e.g. with all files that depend on the patched files, so that
later invocations of do not get confused by the patched files' times.  This
specifies whether gets missing or read-only files from RCS, ClearCase,
Perforce, or SCCS by default; see the or option.  If set, conforms more
strictly to the POSIX standard by default: see the option.  Default value of
the option.  Extension to use for simple backup file names instead of TMPDIR,
TMP, TEMP Directory to put temporary files in; uses the first environment
variable in this list that is set.  If none are set, the default is system-
dependent; it is normally on Unix hosts.  VERSION_CONTROL or
PATCH_VERSION_CONTROL Selects version control style; see the or option.
temporary files controlling terminal; used to get answers to questions asked
of the user

Marshall T. Rose and Einar A. Stefferud, Proposed Standard for Message
Encapsulation, Internet RFC 934 <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc934>
(1985-01).  There are several things you should bear in mind if you are going
to be sending out patches.  Create your patch systematically.  When using a
version control system this should be easy; for example, with Git you can use
Otherwise, a good method is the command where and identify the old and new
directories.  The names and should not contain any slashes.  If the patch
should communicate file timestamps as well as file contents, its commands'
headers should have dates and times in Universal Time using traditional Unix
format, so that patch recipients can use the or option.	 Here is an example
command to generate such headers, using Bourne shell syntax:

LC_ALL=C TZ=UTC0 diff -Naur myprog-2.7 myprog-2.8 Tell your recipients how to
apply the patch by telling them which directory to to, and which options to
use.  The option string is recommended.	 Test your procedure by pretending to
be a recipient and applying your patch to a copy of the original files.	 You
can save people a lot of grief by keeping a file which is patched to increment
the patch level as the first diff in the patch file you send out.  If you put
a line in with the patch, it won't let them apply patches out of order without
some warning.  You can create a file by sending out a diff that compares or an
empty file dated the Epoch (1970-01-01 00:00:00 UTC) to the file you want to
create.	 This only works if the file you want to create doesn't exist already
in the target directory.  Conversely, you can remove a file by sending out a
context diff that compares the file to be deleted with an empty file dated the
Epoch.	The file will be removed unless is conforming to POSIX and the or
option is not given.  An easy way to generate patches that create and remove
files is to use GNU or option.	If the recipient is supposed to use the
option, do not send output that looks like this:

diff -Naur v2.0.29/prog/README prog/README
--- v2.0.29/prog/README	  Mon Mar 10 15:13:12 2024
+++ prog/README	  Mon Mar 17 14:58:22 2024

because the two file names have different numbers of slashes, and different
versions of interpret the file names differently.  To avoid confusion, send
output that looks like this instead:

diff -Naur v2.0.29/prog/README v2.0.30/prog/README
--- v2.0.29/prog/README	  Mon Mar 10 15:13:12 2024
+++ v2.0.30/prog/README	  Mon Mar 17 14:58:22 2024

Avoid sending patches that compare backup file names like since this might
confuse into patching a backup file instead of the real file.  Instead, send
patches that compare the same base file names in different directories, e.g.
and Take care not to send out reversed patches, since it makes people wonder
whether they already applied the patch.	 Try not to have your patch modify
derived files (e.g. the file where there is a line in your makefile), since
the recipient should be able to regenerate the derived files anyway.  If you
must send diffs of derived files, generate the diffs using UTC, have the
recipients apply the patch with the or option, and have them remove any
unpatched files that depend on patched files (e.g. with While you may be able
to get away with putting 582 diff listings into one file, it may be wiser to
group related patches into separate files in case something goes haywire.
Diagnostics generally indicate that couldn't parse your patch file.  If the
option is given, the message indicates that there is unprocessed text in the
patch file and that is attempting to intuit whether there is a patch in that
text and, if so, what kind of patch it is.  exit status is 0 if all hunks are
applied successfully, 1 if some hunks cannot be applied or there were merge
conflicts, and 2 if there is more serious trouble.  When applying a set of
patches in a loop it behooves you to check this exit status so you don't apply
a later patch to a partially patched file.  Context diffs cannot reliably
represent the creation or deletion of empty files, empty directories, or
special files such as symbolic links.  Nor can they represent changes to file
metadata like ownership, permissions, or whether one file is a hard link to
another.  If changes like these are also required, separate instructions (e.g.
a shell script) to accomplish them should accompany the patch.	cannot tell if
the line numbers are off in an script, and can detect bad line numbers in a
normal diff only when it finds a change or deletion.  A context diff using
fuzz factor 3 may have the same problem.  You should probably do a context
diff in these cases to see if the changes made sense.  Of course, compiling
without errors is a pretty good indication that the patch worked, but not
always.	 usually produces the correct results, even when it has to do a lot of
guessing.  However, the results are guaranteed to be correct only when the
patch is applied to exactly the same version of the file that the patch was
generated from.	 The POSIX standard specifies behavior that differs from GNU
In POSIX when is not used, backups are not made even when there is a mismatch.
In GNU this behavior is enabled with the option, or by conforming to POSIX
with the option or by setting the environment variable.	 When intuiting the
name of the file to be patched from the patch header, uses a complicated
method that is optionally POSIX-conforming.  The method is equivalent to POSIX
if the file names in the context diff header and the line are all identical
after prefix-stripping.	 Your patch is normally compatible if each header's
file names all contain the same number of slashes.  Limit yourself to the
following options when sending instructions meant to be executed by anyone
running GNU or a that conforms to POSIX.  Spaces are optional in the following
list.

Please report bugs via email to If code has been duplicated (for instance with
#ifdef OLDCODE ... #else ... #endif), is incapable of patching both versions,
and, if it works at all, will likely patch the wrong one, and tell you that it
succeeded to boot.  If you apply a patch you've already applied, thinks it is
a reversed patch, and offers to un-apply the patch.  This could be construed
as a feature.  Computing how to merge a hunk is significantly harder than
using the standard fuzzy algorithm.  Bigger hunks, more context, a bigger
offset from the original location, and a worse match all slow the algorithm
down.  Copyright © 1989–2025 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright © 1984–1986, 1988 Larry Wall.	 Permission is granted to make and
distribute verbatim copies of this manual provided the copyright notice and
this permission notice are preserved on all copies.  Permission is granted to
copy and distribute modified versions of this manual under the conditions for
verbatim copying, provided that the entire resulting derived work is
distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical to this one.
Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual into
another language, under the above conditions for modified versions, except
that this permission notice may be included in translations approved by the
copyright holders instead of in the original English.  Larry Wall wrote the
original version of Paul Eggert removed arbitrary limits; added support for
binary files, setting file times, and deleting files; and made it conform
better to POSIX.  Other contributors include Wayne Davison, who added unidiff
support, and David MacKenzie, who added configuration and backup support.
Andreas Gruenbacher added support for merging.


