pic - compile pictures for or TeX The GNU implementation of is part of the
document formatting system.  is a preprocessor that translates descriptions of
diagrammatic pictures embedded in or TeX input files into the language
understood by TeX or It copies the contents of each to the standard output
stream, except that lines between and any of or are interpreted as picture
descriptions in the language.  End a picture with to leave the drawing
position at the bottom of the picture, and with or to leave it at the top.
Normally, is not executed directly by the user, but invoked by specifying the
option to If no operands are given on the command line, or if is the standard
input stream is read.  It is the user's responsibility to provide appropriate
definitions of the and one or both of the and macros.  When a macro package
does not supply these, obtain simple definitions with the option these will
center each picture.  GNU supports as a synonym of to work around a name space
collision with the macro package, which defines as a page footer management
macro.	Use preferentially unless a similar problem faces your document.
displays a usage message, while and show version information; all exit
afterward.  Be more compatible with implies Lines beginning with are not
passed through transparently.  Lines beginning with are passed through with
the initial changed to A line beginning with is given special treatment: it
takes an optional integer argument specifying the line thickness (pen size) in
milliinches; a missing argument restores the previous line thickness; the
default line thickness is 8 milliinches.  The line thickness thus specified
takes effect only when a non-negative line thickness has not been specified by
use of the attribute or by setting the variable.  Recognize and even when
followed by a character other than space or newline.  Don't use extensions to
the drawing commands.  Specify this option if a postprocessor you're using
doesn't support these extensions, described in This option also causes not to
use zero-length lines to draw dots in mode.  Operate in commands are ignored.
This mode, enabled by default, can be useful when operating on untrustworthy
input.	Produce TeX output.  Operate in commands are interpreted.  In TeX
mode, draw dots using zero-length lines.  The following options supported by
other versions of are ignored.	Draw all lines using the \D escape sequence.
GNU always does this.  Generate output for the device This is unnecessary
because the output generated by GNU is device-independent.  This section
primarily discusses the differences between GNU and the Eighth Edition
Research Unix version of AT&T (1985).  Many of these differences also apply to
later versions of AT&T TeX-compatible output is produced when the option is
specified.  You must use a TeX driver that supports version 2 specials.	 was a
fork of AT&T by Tim Morgan of the University of California at Irvine that
diverged from its source around 1984.  It is best known today for lending its
name to a group of commands it produced for TeX.)  Lines beginning with are
passed through transparently; a is added to the end of the line to avoid
unwanted spaces.  You can safely use this feature to change fonts or the value
of Anything else may well produce undesirable results; use at your own risk.
By default, lines beginning with a dot are not treated specially—but see the
option.	 In TeX mode, will define a vbox called for each picture.  Use GNU
command to change the name of the vbox.	 You must print that vbox yourself
using the command \centerline{\box\graph} for instance.	 Since the vbox has a
height of zero (it is defined with this will produce slightly more vertical
space above the picture than below it; \centerline{\raise 1em\box\graph} would
avoid this.  To give the vbox a positive height and a depth of zero (as used
by LaTeX's for example) define the following macro in your document.
\def\gpicbox#1{%
  \vbox{\unvbox\csname #1\endcsname\kern 0pt}} You can then simply say instead
of Several commands new to GNU accept delimiters, shown in their synopses as
braces Nesting of braces is supported.	Any other characters (except a space,
tab, or newline) may be used as alternative delimiters, in which case the
members of a given pair must be identical.  Strings are recognized within
delimiters of either kind; they may contain the delimiter character or
unbalanced braces.  for variable = expr1 to expr2 [by [*]expr3] do X body X
Set to While the value of is less than or equal to do and increment by if is
not given, increment by 1.  If is prefixed by then will instead be multiplied
by The value of can be negative for the additive case; is then tested whether
it is greater than or equal to For the multiplicative case, must be greater
than zero.  If the constraints aren't met, the loop isn't executed.  can be
any character not occurring in if expr then X if-true X [else Y if-false Y]
Evaluate if it is non-zero then do otherwise do can be any character not
occurring in can be any character not occurring in  ...	 Concatenate and write
arguments to the standard error stream followed by a newline.  Each must be an
expression, a position, or text.  This is useful for debugging.	  ...
Concatenate arguments and pass them as a line to or TeX.  Each must be an
expression, a position, or text.  allows the values of variables to be passed
to the formatter.  For example, .PS x = 14 command ".ds string x is " x "."
.PE \*[string] produces x is 14.  when formatted with sh X command X Pass to a
shell.	copy "filename" Include at this point in the file.  ] ] This construct
does once for each line of the line is split into blank-delimited words, and
occurrences of in for between 1 and 9, are replaced by the word of the line.
If is not given, lines are taken from the current input up to If an clause is
specified, lines will be read only until a line the first word of which is
that line will then be discarded.  can be any character not occurring in For
example, .PS copy thru % circle at ($1,$2) % until "END" 1 2 3 4 5 6 END box
.PE and .PS circle at (1,2) circle at (3,4) circle at (5,6) box .PE are
equivalent.  The commands to be performed for each line can also be taken from
a macro defined earlier by giving the name of the macro as the argument to The
argument after is looked up as a macro name first; if not defined, its first
character is interpreted as a delimiter.  Reset predefined variables ... to
their default values; if no arguments are given, reset all predefined
variables to their default values.  Variable names may be separated by commas,
spaces, or both.  Assigning a value to also causes all predefined variables
that control dimensions to be reset to their default values times the new
value of plot expr ["text"] This is a text object which is constructed by
using as a format string for sprintf with an argument of If is omitted a
format string of is used.  Attributes can be specified in the same way as for
a normal text object.  Be very careful that you specify an appropriate format
string; does only very limited checking of the string.	This is deprecated in
favour of This syntax resembles variable assignment with except that must
already be defined, and will be assigned to without creating a variable local
to the current block.  (By contrast, defines in the current block if it is not
already defined there, and then changes the value in the current block only.)
For example, writes 5 3 to the standard error stream.  The syntax for
expressions has been significantly extended.  (exponentiation)
(base 10)
(base 10, i.e. 10^x)
(return a random number between 0 and 1)
(return a random number between 1 and deprecated)
(set the random number seed)
e1 && e2
e1 || e2
e1 == e2
e1 != e2
e1 >= e2
e1 > e2
e1 <= e2
e1 < e2
"str1" == "str2"
"str1" != "str2"
String comparison expressions must be parenthesised in some contexts to avoid
ambiguity.  A bare expression, is acceptable as an attribute; it is equivalent
to where is the current direction.  For example means draw a line 2 inches
long in the current direction.	The ‘i’ (or ‘I’) character is ignored; to use
another measurement unit, set the variable to an appropriate value.  The
maximum width and height of the picture are taken from the variables and
Initially, these have values 8.5 and 11.  Scientific notation is allowed for
numbers.  For example x = 5e-2 Text attributes can be compounded.  For
example, "foo" above ljust is valid.  There is no limit to the depth to which
blocks can be examined.	 For example, [A: [B: [C: box ]]] with .A.B.C.sw at
1,2 circle at last [].A.B.C is acceptable.  Arcs now have compass points
determined by the circle of which the arc is a part.  Circles, ellipses, and
arcs can be dotted or dashed.  In TeX mode splines can be dotted or dashed
also.  Boxes can have rounded corners.	The attribute specifies the radius of
the quarter-circles at each corner.  If no or attribute is given, a radius of
is used.  Initially, has a value of 0.	A box with rounded corners can be
dotted or dashed.  Boxes can have slanted sides.  This effectively changes the
shape of a box from a rectangle to an arbitrary parallelogram.	The and
attributes specify the x and y offset of the box's upper right corner from its
default position.  The line can have a second argument specifying a maximum
height for the picture.	 If the width of zero is specified the width will be
ignored in computing the scaling factor for the picture.  GNU will always
scale a picture by the same amount vertically as well as horizontally.	This
is different from DWB 2.0 which may scale a picture by a different amount
vertically than horizontally if a height is specified.	Each text object has
an invisible box associated with it.  The compass points of a text object are
determined by this box.	 The implicit motion associated with the object is
also determined by this box.  The dimensions of this box are taken from the
width and height attributes; if the width attribute is not supplied then the
width will be taken to be if the height attribute is not supplied then the
height will be taken to be the number of text strings associated with the
object times Initially, and have a value of 0.	In (almost all) places where a
quoted text string can be used, an expression of the form can also be used;
this will produce the arguments formatted according to which should be a
string as described in appropriate for the number of arguments supplied.  Only
the modifiers and “ ” [space]), a minimum field width, an optional precision,
and the conversion specifiers and are supported.  The thickness of the lines
used to draw objects is controlled by the variable.  This gives the thickness
of lines in points.  A negative value means use the default thickness: in TeX
output mode, this means use a thickness of 8 milliinches; in TeX output mode
with the option, this means use the line thickness specified by lines; in
output mode, this means use a thickness proportional to the pointsize.	A zero
value means draw the thinnest possible line supported by the output device.
Initially, it has a value of -1.  There is also a attribute.  For example,
would draw a circle using a line with a thickness of 1.5 points.  The
thickness of lines is not affected by the value of the variable, nor by the
width or height given in the line.  Boxes (including boxes with rounded
corners or slanted sides), circles and ellipses can be filled by giving them
an attribute of This takes an optional argument of an expression with a value
between 0 and 1; 0 will fill it with white, 1 with black, values in between
with a proportionally gray shade.  A value greater than 1 can also be used:
this means fill with the shade of gray that is currently being used for text
and lines.  Normally this will be black, but output devices may provide a
mechanism for changing this.  Without an argument, then the value of the
variable will be used.	Initially, this has a value of 0.5.  The invisible
attribute does not affect the filling of objects.  Any text associated with a
filled object will be added after the object has been filled, so that the text
will not be obscured by the filling.  Additional modifiers are available to
draw colored objects: sets the color of the outline, the fill color, and sets
both.  All expect a subsequent string argument specifying the color.  circle
shaded "green" outline "black" Color is not yet supported in TeX mode.	Device
macro files like declare color names; you can define additional ones with the
request (see To change the name of the vbox in TeX mode, set the pseudo-
variable (which is actually a specially parsed command) within a picture.
Example:
The picture is then available in the box assumes that at the beginning of a
picture both glyph and fill color are set to the default value.	 Arrow heads
will be drawn as solid triangles if the variable is non-zero and either TeX
mode is enabled or the option has not been given.  Initially, has a value
of 1.  Solid arrow heads are always filled with the current outline color.
The output of is device-independent.  The option is therefore redundant.  All
numbers are taken to be in inches; numbers are never interpreted to be in
machine units.	Objects can have an attribute.	This will only work if the
postprocessor is or Any text associated with an object having the attribute
will be rotated about the center of the object so that it is aligned in the
direction from the start point to the end point of the object.	This attribute
will have no effect on objects whose start and end points are coincident.  In
places where is allowed, is also allowed.  is a single token: no space is
allowed between the apostrophe and the For example, for i = 1 to 4 do {
   line from 'i'th box.nw to 'i+1'th box.se } To obtain a stand-alone picture
from a file, enclose your code with and requests; configuration commands may
be added at the beginning of the file, but no text.  It is necessary to feed
this file into without adding any page information, so you must check which
and requests are actually called.  For example, the macro package adds a page
number, which is very annoying.	 At the moment, calling standard without any
macro package works.  Alternatively, you can define your own requests, e.g.,
to do nothing: .de PS ..  .de PE ..  itself does not provide direct conversion
into other graphics file formats.  But there are lots of possibilities if you
first transform your picture into PostScript® format using the option Since
this lacks BoundingBox information it is not very useful by itself, but it may
be fed into other conversion programs, usually named or or the like.
Moreover, the PostScript interpreter Ghostscript has built-in graphics
conversion devices that are called with the option Call for a list of the
available devices.  An alternative may be to use the option to convert your
picture directly into format.  The MediaBox of the file produced can be
controlled by passing a papersize to
As the Encapsulated PostScript File Format is getting more and more important,
and the conversion wasn't regarded trivial in the past you might be interested
to know that there is a conversion tool named which does the right job.	 It is
much better than the tool packaged with For bitmapped graphic formats, you
should use the resulting (intermediate) file can be then converted to
virtually any graphics format using the tools of the package.  offers simple
definitions of the and macros.	Characters that are invalid as input to GNU
(see the Texinfo manual or for a list) are rejected even in TeX mode.  The
interpretation of is incompatible with the in Tenth Edition Research Unix,
which interprets 0 as black and 1 as white.  “Making Pictures with GNU pic”,
by Eric S. Raymond.  This file, together with its source, is part of the
distribution.  “PIC—A Graphics Language for Typesetting: User Manual”, by
Brian W. Kernighan, 1984 (revised 1991), AT&T Bell Laboratories Computing
Science Technical Report No. 116 is available from CTAN mirrors, e.g., W.
Richard Stevens, W. Richard Stevens,


