pigz, unpigz - compress or expand files [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ]
[ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] compresses using threads to make use of multiple processors
and cores.  The input is broken up into 128 KB chunks with each compressed in
parallel.  The individual check value for each chunk is also calculated in
parallel.  The compressed data is written in order to the output, and a
combined check value is calculated from the individual check values.  The
compressed data format generated is in the gzip, zlib, or single-entry zip
format using the deflate compression method.  The compression produces partial
raw deflate streams which are concatenated by a single write thread and
wrapped with the appropriate header and trailer, where the trailer contains
the combined check value.  Each partial raw deflate stream is terminated by an
empty stored block (using the Z_SYNC_FLUSH option of zlib), in order to end
that partial bit stream at a byte boundary.  That allows the partial streams
to be concatenated simply as sequences of bytes.  This adds a very small four
to five byte overhead to the output for each input chunk.  The default input
block size is 128K, but can be changed with the option.	 The number of
compress threads is set by default to the number of online processors, which
can be changed using the option.  Specifying avoids the use of threads
entirely.  The input blocks, while compressed independently, have the last 32K
of the previous block loaded as a preset dictionary to preserve the
compression effectiveness of deflating in a single thread.  This can be turned
off using the or option, so that the blocks can be decompressed independently
for partial error recovery or for random access. This also inserts an extra
empty block to flag independent blocks by prefacing each with the nine-byte
sequence (in hex): 00 00 FF FF 00 00 00 FF FF.	Decompression can't be
parallelized, at least not without specially prepared deflate streams for that
purpose.  As a result, uses a single thread (the main thread) for
decompression, but will create three other threads for reading, writing, and
check calculation, which can speed up decompression under some circumstances.
Parallel decompression can be turned off by specifying one process ( or ).
All options on the command line are processed before any names are processed.
If no names are provided on the command line, or if "-" is given as a name
(but not after "--"), then the input is taken from stdin. If the GZIP or PIGZ
environment variables are set, then options are taken from their values before
any command line options are processed, first from GZIP, then from PIGZ.
Compressed files can be restored to their original form using or

Regulate the speed of compression using the specified digit where or indicates
the fastest compression method (less compression) and or indicates the slowest
compression method (best compression).	is no compression.  gives a few
percent better compression at a severe cost in execution time, using the
zopfli algorithm by Jyrki Alakuijala.  The default is Use xxx as the name for
any --zip entry from stdin (the default name is "-").  Set compression block
size to mmmK (default 128KiB).	Write all processed output to stdout (won't
delete).  Include the provided comment in the gzip header or zip central file
header.	 Decompress the compressed input.  Force overwrite, compress .gz,
links, and to terminal.	 Display a help screen and quit.  Compress using the
Huffman-only strategy.	Compress blocks independently for damage recovery.  Do
not delete original file after processing.  Compress to PKWare zip (.zip)
single entry format.  List the contents of the compressed input.  Display the
license and quit.  Do not store or restore the modification time. -Nm will
store or restore the name, but not the modification time. Note that the order
of the options is important.  Store or restore the modification time. -nM will
store or restore the modification time, but not the name. Note that the order
of the options is important. Modification times are stored only for regular
files, not pipes.  Do not store or restore the file name or the modification
time. This is the default when decompressing. When the file name is not
restored from the header, the name of the compressed file with the suffix
stripped is the name of the decompressed file. When the modification time is
not restored from the header, the modification time of the compressed file is
used (not the current time).  Store or restore both the file name and the
modification time. This is the default when compressing.  Allow up to n
processes (default is the number of online processors) Print no messages, even
on error.  Process the contents of all subdirectories.	Input-determined block
locations for rsync.  Use suffix .sss instead of .gz (for compression).	 Test
the integrity of the compressed input.	Compress using the run length encoding
strategy.  Provide more verbose output.	 Show the version of pigz. -vV also
shows the zlib version.	 Compress to zlib (.zz) instead of gzip format.	 All
arguments after "--" are treated as file names (for names that start with "-")
These options are unique to the -11 compression level: Do iterations first,
before block split (default is last).  Number of iterations for optimization
(default 15).  Maximum number of split blocks (default 15).  Do not split into
smaller blocks (default is block splitting).  This software is provided 'as-
is', without any express or implied warranty.  In no event will the author be
held liable for any damages arising from the use of this software.  Copyright
(C) 2007-2023 Mark Adler <madler@alumni.caltech.edu>


