poweroff, reboot, halt - Power off, reboot, or halt the machine poweroff
[OPTIONS...]  reboot [OPTIONS...]  halt [OPTIONS...]  poweroff, reboot, and
halt may be used to power off, reboot, or halt the machine. All three commands
take the same options.	The following options are understood: --help Print a
short help text and exit.

Added in version 253.  --halt Halt the machine, regardless of which one of the
three commands is invoked.

Added in version 253.  -p, --poweroff Power off the machine, when either halt
or poweroff is invoked. This option is ignored when reboot is invoked.

Added in version 253.  --reboot Reboot the machine, regardless of which one of
the three commands is invoked.

Added in version 253.  -f, --force Force immediate power-off, halt, or reboot.
If specified, the command does not contact the init system. In most cases,
filesystems are not properly unmounted before shutdown. For example, the
command reboot -f is mostly equivalent to systemctl reboot -ff, instead of
systemctl reboot -f.

Added in version 253.  -w, --wtmp-only Only write wtmp shutdown entry, do not
actually power off, reboot, or halt.

Added in version 253.  -d, --no-wtmp Do not write wtmp shutdown entry.

Added in version 253.  -n, --no-sync Do not sync hard disks/storage media
before power-off, reboot, or halt.

Added in version 253.  --no-wall Do not send wall message before power-off,
reboot, or halt.

Added in version 253.  On success, 0 is returned, a non-zero failure code
otherwise.  These commands are implemented in a way that preserves basic
compatibility with the original SysV commands.	systemctl(1) verbs poweroff,
reboot, halt provide the same functionality with some additional features.
Note that on many SysV systems halt used to be synonymous to poweroff, i.e.
both commands would equally result in powering the machine off. systemd is
more accurate here, and halt results in halting the machine only (leaving
power on), and poweroff is required to actually power it off.  systemd(1),
systemctl(1), shutdown(8), wall(1)


