preconv - prepare files for typesetting with reads each converts its encoded
characters to a form can interpret, and sends the result to the standard
output stream.	Currently, this means that code points in the range 0–127 (in
US-ASCII, ISO 8859, or Unicode) remain as-is and the remainder are converted
to the special character form ”, where is a hexadecimal number of four to six
digits corresponding to a Unicode code point.  By default, also inserts a
request at the beginning of each identifying it for the benefit of later
processing (including diagnostic messages); the option suppresses this
behavior.  In typical usage scenarios, need not be run directly; instead it
should be invoked with the or options of If no operands are given on the
command line, or if is the standard input stream is read.  tries to find the
input encoding with the following algorithm, stopping at the first success.
If the input encoding has been explicitly specified with option use it.	 If
the input starts with a Unicode Byte Order Mark, determine the encoding as
UTF-8, UTF-16, or UTF-32 accordingly.  If the input stream is seekable, check
the first and second input lines for a recognized GNU Emacs file-local
variable identifying the character encoding, here referred to as the “coding
tag” for brevity.  If found, use it.  If the input stream is seekable, and if
the library is available on the system, use it to try to infer the encoding of
the file.  If the option specifies an encoding, use it.	 Use the encoding
specified by the current locale unless the locale is “C”, “POSIX”, or empty,
in which case assume Latin-1 (ISO 8859-1).  The coding tag and methods in the
above procedure rely upon a seekable input stream; when reads from a pipe, the
stream is not seekable, and these detection methods are skipped.  If character
encoding detection of your input files is unreliable, arrange for one of the
other methods to succeed by using or options, or by configuring your locale
appropriately.	also supports a environment variable, which can be overridden
by its option.	Valid values for (or parameters to) all of these are
enumerated in the lists of recognized coding tags in the next subsection, and
are further influenced by library support.  Text editors that support more
than a single character encoding need tags within the input files to mark the
file's encoding.  While it is possible to guess the right input encoding with
the help of heuristics that are reliable for a preponderance of natural
language texts, they are not absolutely reliable.  Heuristics can fail on
inputs that are too short or don't represent a natural language.
Consequently, supports the coding tag convention used by GNU Emacs (with some
restrictions).	This notation appears in specially marked regions of an input
file designated for “file-local variables”.  interprets the following syntax
if it occurs in a comment in the first or second line of the input file.  Both
“\"” and “\#” comment forms are recognized, but the control (or no-break
control) character must be the default and must begin the line.	 Similarly,
the escape character must be the default.  The only variable interprets is
“coding”, which can take the values listed below.  The following list
comprises all MIME “charset” parameter values recognized, case-insensitively,
by big5, cp1047, euc-jp, euc-kr, gb2312, iso-8859-1, iso-8859-2, iso-8859-5,
iso-8859-7, iso-8859-9, iso-8859-13, iso-8859-15, koi8-r, us-ascii, utf-8,
utf-16, utf-16be, utf-16le In addition, the following list of other coding
tags is recognized, each of which is mapped to an appropriate value from the
list above.  ascii, chinese-big5, chinese-euc, chinese-iso-8bit, cn-big5,
cn-gb, cn-gb-2312, cp878, csascii, csisolatin1, cyrillic-iso-8bit,
cyrillic-koi8, euc-china, euc-cn, euc-japan, euc-japan-1990, euc-korea,
greek-iso-8bit, iso-10646/utf8, iso-10646/utf-8, iso-latin-1, iso-latin-2,
iso-latin-5, iso-latin-7, iso-latin-9, japanese-euc, japanese-iso-8bit, jis8,
koi8, korean-euc, korean-iso-8bit, latin-0, latin1, latin-1, latin-2, latin-5,
latin-7, latin-9, mule-utf-8, mule-utf-16, mule-utf-16be, mule-utf-16-be,
mule-utf-16be-with-signature, mule-utf-16le, mule-utf-16-le,
mule-utf-16le-with-signature, utf8, utf-16-be, utf-16-be-with-signature,
utf-16be-with-signature, utf-16-le, utf-16-le-with-signature,
utf-16le-with-signature Trailing “-dos”, “-unix”, and “-mac” suffixes on
coding tags (which indicate the end-of-line convention used in the file) are
disregarded for the purpose of comparison with the above tags.	While
recognizes all of the coding tags listed above, it is capable on its own of
interpreting only three encodings: Latin-1, code page 1047, and UTF-8.	If
support is configured at compile time and available at run time, all others
are passed to library functions, which may recognize many additional encoding
strings.  The command discloses whether support is configured.	The use of
means that characters in the input that encode invalid code points for that
encoding may be dropped from the output stream or mapped to the Unicode
replacement character (U+FFFD).	 Compare the following examples using the
input “café” (note the “e” with an acute accent), which due to its short
length challenges inference of the encoding used.  printf 'caf\351\n' |
LC_ALL=en_US.UTF-8 preconv printf 'caf\351\n' | preconv -e us-ascii printf
'caf\351\n' | preconv -e latin-1 The fate of the accented “e” differs in each
case.  In the first, fails to detect an encoding (though the library on your
system may behave differently) and falls back to the locale settings, where
octal 351 starts an incomplete UTF-8 sequence and results in the Unicode
replacement character.	In the second, it is not a representable character in
the declared input encoding of US-ASCII and is discarded by In the last, it is
correctly detected and mapped.	cannot perform any transformation on input
that it cannot see.  Examples include files that are interpolated by
preprocessors that run subsequently, including files included by itself
through and similar requests; and string definitions passed to through its
command-line option.  assumes that its input uses the default escape
character, a backslash and writes special character escape sequences
accordingly.  and display a usage message, while and show version information;
all exit afterward.  Emit debugging messages to the standard error stream.
Report if all detection methods fail.  Skip detection and assume see option.
Write files “raw”; do not add requests.


