pstree - display a tree of processes
shows running processes as a tree.  The tree is rooted at either or if is
omitted.  If a user name is specified, all process trees rooted at processes
owned by that user are shown.  visually merges identical branches by putting
them in square brackets and prefixing them with the repetition count, e.g.

    init-+-getty
	 |-getty
	 |-getty
	 `-getty

becomes

    init---4*[getty]

Child threads of a process are found under the parent process and are shown
with the process name in curly braces, e.g.

    icecast2---13*[{icecast2}]

If is called as then it will prompt the user at the end of the line to press
return and will not return until that has happened.  This is useful for when
is run in a xterminal.	Certain kernel or mount parameters, such as the
hidepid option for procfs, will hide information for some processes. In these
situations will attempt to build the tree without this information, showing
process names as question marks.

Show command line arguments.  If the command line of a process is swapped out,
that process is shown in parentheses.  implicitly disables compaction for
processes but not threads.  Use ASCII characters to draw the tree.  Disable
compaction of identical subtrees.  By default, subtrees are compacted whenever
possible.  Color the process name by given attribute. Currently pstree only
accepts the value age which colors by process age.  Processes newer than 60
seconds are green, newer than an hour yellow and the remaining red.  Show
PGIDs.	Process Group IDs are shown as decimal numbers in parentheses after
each process name.  If both PIDs and PGIDs are displayed then PIDs are shown
first.	Use VT100 line drawing characters.  Highlight the current process and
its ancestors.	This is a no-op if the terminal doesn't support highlighting
or if neither the current process nor any of its ancestors are in the subtree
being shown.  Like but highlight the specified process instead.	 Unlike with
fails when using if highlighting is not available.  Display long lines.	 By
default, lines are truncated to either the COLUMNS environment variable or the
display width.	If neither of these methods work, the default of 132 columns
is used.  Sort processes with the same parent by PID instead of by name.
(Numeric sort.)	 Show individual trees for each namespace of the type
specified.  The available types are: Regular users don't have access to other
users' processes information, so the output will be limited.  Show PIDs.  PIDs
are shown as decimal numbers in parentheses after each process name.
implicitly disables compaction.	 Show parent processes of the specified
process.  Show namespaces transitions.	Like -N, the output is limited when
running as a regular user.  Show full names for threads when available.	 Hide
threads and only show processes.  Show uid transitions.	 Whenever the uid of a
process differs from the uid of its parent, the new uid is shown in
parentheses after the process name.  Use UTF-8 (Unicode) line drawing
characters.  Under Linux 1.1-54 and above, UTF-8 mode is entered on the
console with and left with Display version information.	 Show the current
security attributes of the process. For SELinux systems this will be the
security context.  /proc location of the proc file system Some character sets
may be incompatible with the VT100 characters.


