rpm - RPM Package Manager rpm {-q|--query} [select-options] [query-options]
[PACKAGE_FILE ...] [PACKAGE_NAME ...] rpm {-V|--verify} [select-options]
[verify-options] [PACKAGE_NAME ...] rpm {-i|--install} [transaction-options]
[install-options] PACKAGE_FILE ... rpm {-U|--upgrade} [transaction-options]
[install-options] PACKAGE_FILE ... rpm {-F|--freshen} [transaction-options]
[install-options] PACKAGE_FILE ... rpm --reinstall [transaction-options]
[install-options] PACKAGE_FILE ... rpm --restore [transaction-options]
[select-options] PACKAGE_NAME ... rpm {-e|--erase} [transaction-options]
[erase-options] PACKAGE_NAME ... rpm --querytags See rpm-common(8) for
operations common to all rpm executables. rpm is a powerful Package Manager,
which can be used to build, install, query, verify, update, and erase
individual software packages. A package consists of an archive of files and
meta-data used to install and erase the archive files. The meta-data includes
helper scripts, file attributes, and descriptive information about the
package. Packages come in two varieties: binary packages, used to encapsulate
software to be installed, and source packages, containing the source code and
recipe necessary to produce binary packages. -V, --verify Verify package(s),
comparing information about the installed files in the package with
information about the files taken from the package metadata stored in the rpm
database. Among other things, verifying compares the size, digest,
permissions, type, owner and group of each file. Any discrepancies are
displayed. -q, --query Query package files or installed package(s). -i,
--install Install new package(s) without considering upgrade scenarios. This
is considered special usage, normally installations should be done with
--upgrade. -U, --upgrade Install or upgrade package(s) to a newer version. Old
and/or obsoleted package(s) are removed after the new package is installed.
-F, --freshen Upgrade package(s), but only ones for which an earlier version
is installed. --reinstall Reinstall previously installed package(s). --restore
Restore file metadata such as timestamp, owner, group, permissions and
capabilities of files of installed package(s). -e, --erase Erase installed
packages. --querytags Dump known querytags. Useful with the --queryformat
option. These are obsolete popt(3) aliases for backwards compatibility only,
and their use is discouraged. --initdb, --rebuilddb, --verifydb See rpmdb(8).
--addsign, --delsign, --resign See rpmsign(1). -K, --checksig, --import See
rpmkeys(8). --specfile See rpmspec(1). See rpm-common(8) for the operations
common to all rpm executables. PACKAGE_FILE Either an rpm package or an rpm-
manifest(5) file. May also be specified as an ftp or http URL, in which case
the package will be downloaded before being installed. See FTP/HTTP OPTIONS
for information on rpm's ftp and http client support. PACKAGE_NAME Installed
package named PACKAGE_NAME. To specify the package more precisely the package
name may be followed by the version or version and release both separated by a
dash or an architecture name separated by a dot. See the output of rpm -qa or
rpm -qp PACKAGE_FILE as an example. See rpm-common(8) for the options common
to all operations. --allfiles Installs or upgrades all the missingok files in
the package, regardless if they exist. --badreloc Used with --relocate, permit
relocations on all file paths, not just those OLDPATH's included in the binary
package relocation hint(s). --excludepath OLDPATH Don't install files whose
name begins with OLDPATH. --excludeartifacts Don't install any files which are
marked as artifacts, such as build-id links. --excludeconfigs, --noconfigs Do
not install configuration files. --excludedocs Don't install any files which
are marked as documentation (which includes man pages and texinfo documents).
--force Same as using --replacepkgs, --replacefiles, and --oldpackage.
--ignoresize Don't check mount filesystems for sufficient disk space before
installing this package. --ignorearch Allow installation or upgrading even if
the architectures of the binary package and host don't match. --ignoreos Allow
installation or upgrading even if the operating systems of the binary package
and host don't match. --includedocs Install documentation files. This is the
default behavior. --nocontexts Don't set SELinux contexts for files and
scriptlets. Only effective if rpm-plugin-selinux(8) is installed and active.
--nocaps Don't set file capabilities. --noverify Don't perform verify package
files prior to installation. --nosysusers Don't create sysusers from packages
--oldpackage Allow an upgrade to replace a newer package with an older one.
--prefix NEWPATH For relocatable binary packages, translate all file paths
that start with the installation prefix in the package relocation hint(s) to
NEWPATH. --relocate OLDPATH=NEWPATH For relocatable binary packages, translate
all file paths that start with OLDPATH in the package relocation hint(s) to
NEWPATH. This option can be used repeatedly if several OLDPATH's in the
package are to be relocated. --replacefiles Install the packages even if they
replace files from other, already installed, packages. --replacepkgs Install
the packages even if some of them are already installed on this system.
--allmatches Remove all versions of the package which match PACKAGE_NAME.
Normally an error is issued if PACKAGE_NAME matches multiple packages. The
transaction options are common to --install, --upgrade, --reinstall and
--erase operations. --deploops Print dependency loops as warnings. -h, --hash
Print 50 hash marks as the package archive is unpacked. Use with -v|--verbose
for a nicer display. --justdb Update only the database, not the filesystem.
--nodb Update only the filesystem, not the database. --nodeps Don't check
dependencies before uninstalling the packages. --noorder Don't reorder the
packages for an install. The list of packages would normally be reordered to
satisfy dependencies. --noplugins Do not load and execute plugins. --noscripts
Disables execution of package scriptlets. Equivalent to --nopre --nopost
--nopreun --nopostun --nopretrans --noposttrans --nopreuntrans --nopostuntrans
--nopre --nopost --nopreun --nopostun --nopretrans --noposttrans
--nopreuntrans --nopostuntrans Don't execute the scriptlets of the named type.
--notriggers Disable execution of package triggers. Equivalent to
--notriggerprein --notriggerin --notriggerun --notriggerpostun --notriggerin
--notriggerun --notriggerprein --notriggerpostun Disable execution of the
trigger scriptlets of the named type. --percent Print percentages as files are
unpacked from the package archive. This is intended to make rpm easy to run
from other tools. --test Don't really execute anything, just go through the
motions. Useful in conjunction with the -vv option for debugging. --qf
QUERYFMT, --queryformat QUERYFMT Output format of each queried package, as
described by rpm-queryformat(7). If omitted, uses the format defined by
%_query_all_fmt in rpm-config(5). There are three subsets of options for
querying: package selection, file selection and information selection. -a,
--all [SELECTOR ...] Query all installed packages. Optional SELECTOR's in the
form of tag=pattern can be provided to narrow the selection, for example
name="b*" to query packages whose name starts with "b". --dupes List
duplicated packages. -f, --file FILE Query package owning installed FILE.
--filecaps List filenames with POSIX1.e capabilities. --fileclass List
filenames with their classes (libmagic classification). --filecolor List
filenames with their colors (0 for noarch, 1 for 32bit, 2 for 64 bit).
--fileprovide List filenames with their provides. --filerequire List filenames
with their requires. -g, --group GROUP Query packages with the group of GROUP.
--noglob Do not glob arguments when installing package files. --nomanifest
Don't process non-package files as rpm-manifest(5) files. -p, --package
PACKAGE_FILE Query an (uninstalled) package PACKAGE_FILE. --path PATH Query
package(s) owning PATH, whether the file is installed or not. Multiple
packages may own a PATH, but the file is only owned by the package installed
last. --querybynumber HDRNUM Query the HDRNUM database entry directly; this is
useful only for debugging. --specfile SPECFILE Obsolete, use rpmspec(1)
instead. --tid TID Query package(s) that have a given TID transaction
identifier. A UNIX timestamp is currently used as a transaction identifier.
All package(s) installed or erased within a single transaction have a common
identifier. --triggeredby PACKAGE_NAME Query packages that are triggered by
package(s) PACKAGE_NAME. --whatobsoletes CAPABILITY Query all packages that
obsolete CAPABILITY for proper functioning. --whatprovides CAPABILITY Query
all packages that provide the CAPABILITY capability. --whatrequires CAPABILITY
Query all packages that require CAPABILITY for proper functioning.
--whatconflicts CAPABILITY Query all packages that conflict with CAPABILITY.
--whatrecommends CAPABILITY Query all packages that recommend CAPABILITY.
--whatsuggests CAPABILITY Query all packages that suggest CAPABILITY.
--whatsupplements CAPABILITY Query all packages that supplement CAPABILITY.
--whatenhances CAPABILITY Query all packages that enhance CAPABILITY.
--changelog Display change information for the package. --changes Display
change information for the package with full timestamps. --conflicts List
capabilities this package conflicts with. --dump Dump file information as
follows (implies -l): path size mtime digest mode owner group isconfig isdoc
rdev symlink --enhances List capabilities enhanced by package(s). --filesbypkg
List all the files in each selected package. --filetriggers List filetrigger
scriptlets from package(s). -i, --info Display package information, including
name, version, and description. This uses the --queryformat if one was
specified. --last Orders the package listing by install time such that the
latest packages are at the top. -l, --list List files in package. --obsoletes
List packages this package obsoletes. --provides List capabilities this
package provides. --recommends List capabilities recommended by package(s).
-R, --requires List capabilities on which this package depends. --suggests
List capabilities suggested by package(s). --supplements List capabilities
supplemented by package(s). --scripts List the package specific scriptlet(s)
that are used as part of the installation and uninstallation processes. -s,
--state Display the states of files in the package (implies -l). The state of
each file is one of normal, not installed, or replaced. --triggers,
--triggerscripts Display the trigger scripts, if any, which are contained in
the package. --xml Format package headers as XML. -A, --artifactfiles Only
include artifact files (implies -l). -c, --configfiles Only include
configuration files (implies -l). -d, --docfiles Only include documentation
files (implies -l). -L, --licensefiles Only include license files (implies
-l). --noartifact Exclude artifact files. --noconfig Exclude config files.
--noghost Exclude ghost files. The package and file selection options are the
same as for package querying (including rpm-manifest(5) files as arguments).
Other options unique to verify mode are: --nodeps Don't verify dependencies of
packages. --nodigest Don't verify package or header digests when reading.
--nofiles Don't verify any attributes of package files. --noscripts Don't
execute the %verifyscript scriptlet (if any). --nosignature Don't verify
package or header signatures when reading. --nolinkto --nofiledigest (formerly
--nomd5) --nosize --nomtime --nomode --nordev Don't verify the corresponding
file attribute. --nouser --nogroup Don't verify file user/group ownership.
Note that only local passwd(5) and group(5) databases are consulted. --nocaps
Don't verify file capabilities. --verify The format of the output is a string
of 9 result characters a possible attribute from the package, followed by the
filename. Each of the 9 characters denotes the result of a comparison of
attribute(s) of the file to the value of those attribute(s) recorded in the
database. A single "." (period) means the test passed, while a single "?"
(question mark) indicates the test could not be performed (e.g. file
permissions prevent reading). Otherwise, the (mnemonically emBoldened)
character denotes failure of the corresponding --verify test:
Result	 Description
S	 file Size differs
M	 Mode differs (includes permissions and file type)
5	 digest (formerly MD5 sum) differs
D	 Device major/minor number mismatch
L	 readLink(2) path mismatch
U	 User ownership differs
G	 Group ownership differs
T	 mTime differs
P	 caPabilities differ

Attribute   Description
a	    %artifact - an implicit side-effect file (eg. build-id links)
c	    %configuration file
d	    %documentation file
g	    %ghost file
l	    %license file
m	    %missingok - file missing is not a verify failure
n	    %config(noreplace) - do not replace (a %config file)
r	    %readme file
s	    rpm-spec(5) file in a source package

On success, 0 is returned, a nonzero failure code otherwise. rpm -Uvh
hello-2.0-1.noarch.rpm Install or upgrade hello-2.0-1.noarch.rpm package with
verbose output and progress meters. -Uvh is probably the most common of all
the rpm operations. rpm -Uvh --excludedocs --root /srv/test mydist-23.mft
Install packages described by the mydist-23.mft rpm-manifest(5) file into the
alternative system root at /srv/test, excluding all documentation files. rpm
-Fvh *.rpm Freshen installed packages from a local directory, with verbose
output and progress meters. rpm -i kernel-6.15.4-200.x86_64.rpm Install
kernel-6.15.4-200.x86_64.rpm package quietly. On some Linux distributions,
different kernel versions are intended to be installed in parallel like this,
without erasing older ones to ensure there's a bootable kernel in case of
problems. It's one of the few cases where -i is the right thing to use. rpm
-evh --allmatches libhello Erase all versions of package libhello on the
system, with verbose output and progress meters. Typically there is only one
version of a package installed at a time, but in some cases it's possible to
have different versions or different architectures of a package installed in
parallel, in which case --allmatches can be handy. rpm -vh --reinstall
hello-2.0-1.noarch.rpm Reinstall previously installed hello-2.0-1.noarch.rpm
package, with verbose output and progress labels. Useful if eg. the files of a
package get corrupted or erased accidentally. rpm -v --restore --all Restore
permissions of files in all installed packages to their packaged
specifications, with verbose output. rpm --verify --noconfig openssh-server
Verify the integrity of the installed openssh-server package, ignoring changes
in configuration. rpm -qa List all installed packages, using the default
formatting. rpm -qlv --noartifact glibc List the files of the glibc package in
style similar to ls(1) command output with ls -l, omitting "artifact" files
such as build-id's which are not usually the main interest. rpm -q --qf
"[%{filenames} %{filedigests}\n]" openssh-server List filenames and their
corresponding digests of installed openssh-server package. rpm -qp --scripts
--triggers --filetriggers myserver-1.0-1.x86_64.rpm Show all scriptlets and
triggers from the myserver-1.0-1.x86_64.rpm package file. Before installing
unknown packages, at least do this! rpm --target ppc64le --eval "%optflags"
Print the expansion of the %optflags macro for the ppc64le architecture. See
rpm-common(8), rpm-config(5) and rpm-rpmrc(5). rpm-common(8), popt(3),
rpm2cpio(1), rpmbuild(1), rpmdb(8), rpmkeys(8), rpmsign(1), rpmspec(1), rpm-
queryformat(7) rpm-manifest(5) rpm-version(7) rpm-plugins(8) rpm --help - as
rpm supports customizing the options via popt aliases it's impossible to
guarantee that what's described in the manual matches what's available.
http://www.rpm.org/


