setfont - load EGA/VGA console screen font The command reads a font from the
file and loads it into the EGA/VGA character generator, and optionally outputs
the previous font.  It can also load various mapping tables and output the
previous versions.  If no args are given (or only the option for some number
then a default font is loaded (see below).  One may give several small fonts,
all containing a Unicode table, and will combine them and load the union.
Typical use: Load a default font.  Load a given font (here the 448-glyph drdos
font).	Load a given font that does not have a Unicode map and provide one
explicitly.  Load a given font (here a 512-glyph font combining several
character sets) and indicate that one's local character set is ISO 8859-2.
Note: if a font has more than 256 glyphs, only 8 out of 16 colors can be used
simultaneously. It can make console perception worse (loss of intensity and
even some colors).

The standard Linux font format is the PSF font.	 It has a header describing
font properties like character size, followed by the glyph bitmaps, optionally
followed by a Unicode mapping table giving the Unicode value for each glyph.
Several other (obsolete) font formats are recognized.  If the input file has
code page format (probably with suffix .cp), containing three fonts with sizes
e.g. 8x8, 8x14 and 8x16, then one of the options -8 or -14 or -16 must be used
to select one.	Raw font files are binary files of size bytes, containing bit
images for each of 256 characters, one byte per scan line, and bytes per
character (0 < <= 32).	Most fonts have a width of 8 bits, but with the
framebuffer device (fb) other widths can be used.

The program has no built-in knowledge of VGA video modes, but just asks the
kernel to load the character ROM of the video card with certain bitmaps.
However, since Linux 1.3.1 the kernel knows enough about EGA/VGA video modes
to select a different line distance. The default character height will be the
number inferred from the font or specified by option. However, the user can
specify a different character height using the option.

Several mappings are involved in the path from user program output to console
display. If the console is in utf8 mode (see then the kernel expects that user
program output is coded as UTF-8 (see and converts that to Unicode (ucs2).
Otherwise, a translation table is used from the 8-bit program output to 16-bit
Unicode values. Such a translation table is called a There are four of them:
three built into the kernel, the fourth settable using the option of An escape
sequence chooses between these four tables; after loading a will output the
escape sequence Esc ( K that makes it the active translation.  Suitable
arguments for the option are for example Given the Unicode value of the symbol
to be displayed, the kernel finds the right glyph in the font using the
Unicode mapping info of the font and displays it.  Old fonts do not have
Unicode mapping info, and in order to handle them there are direct-to-font
maps (also loaded using that give a correspondence between user bytes and font
positions.  The most common correspondence is the one given in the file (where
user byte values are used directly as font positions).	Other correspondences
are sometimes preferable since the PC video hardware expects line drawing
characters in certain font positions.  Giving a argument inhibits the loading
and activation of a mapping table.  The previous console map can be saved to a
file using the option.	These options of setfont render obsolete. (However, it
may be useful to read that man page.)

The correspondence between the glyphs in the font and Unicode values is
described by a Unicode mapping table.  Many fonts have a Unicode mapping table
included in the font file, and an explicit table can be indicated using the
option. The program will load such a Unicode mapping table, unless a argument
is given. The previous Unicode mapping table will be saved as part of the
saved font file when the -O option is used. It can be saved to a separate file
using the option.  These options of setfont render obsolete.  The Unicode
mapping table should assign some glyph to the `missing character' value
U+fffd, otherwise missing characters are not translated, giving a usually very
confusing result.

Usually no mapping table is needed, and a Unicode mapping table is already
contained in the font (sometimes this is indicated by the .psfu extension), so
that most users need not worry about the precise meaning and functioning of
these mapping tables.

One may add a Unicode mapping table to a psf font using

-N, --default8x=N Load default font -hN, --font-height=N Override font height.
The short option must not have a space between the prefix and the number.  -d,
--double Doubles the size of the font, by replicating all of its pixels
vertically and horizontally.  This is suitable for high pixel density (e.g.
"4k") displays on which the standard fonts are too small to be easily legible.
Due to kernel limitations, this is suitable only for 16x16 or smaller fonts.
-o, --output-font=FILE Save previous font in -om, --output-consolemap=FILE
Store console map in -ou, --output-unicodemap=FILE Save previous Unicode map
in -O, --output-fullfont=FILE Save previous font and Unicode map in -m,
--consolemap=FILE Load console map or Unicode console map from -u,
--unicodemap=FILE Load Unicode table describing the font from -C,
--console=DEVICE Set the font for the indicated console. (May require root
permissions.)  -f, --force Force-load unicode map: Setfont`issues the system
call to load the unicode map even if the specified map is empty.  This may be
useful in unusual cases.  -R, --reset Reset the screen font, size, and Unicode
mapping to the bootup defaults.	 -v, --verbose Be verbose.  -V, --version
Print version and exit.	 -h, --help Print a message describing the options and
exit.

PC video hardware allows one to use the "intensity" bit either to indicate
brightness, or to address 512 (instead of 256) glyphs in the font. So, if the
font has more than 256 glyphs, the console will be reduced to 8 (instead of
16) colors.

The default font directory.  The default directory for Unicode maps.  The
default directory for screen mappings.	The default font is a file (or if the
-N option was given for some number N) perhaps with suitable extension (like
.psf).


