setkeycodes - load kernel scancode-to-keycode mapping table entries [options]
The command reads its arguments two at a time, each pair of arguments
consisting of a scancode (given in hexadecimal) and a keycode (given in
decimal). For each such pair, it tells the kernel keyboard driver to map the
specified scancode to the specified keycode.

This command is useful only for people with slightly unusual keyboards, that
have a few keys which produce scancodes that the kernel does not recognize.

The usual PC keyboard produces a series of scancodes for each key press and
key release. (Scancodes are shown by showkey -s, see ) The kernel parses this
stream of scancodes, and converts it to a stream of keycodes (key
press/release events).	(Keycodes are shown by showkey.)  Apart from a few
scancodes with special meaning, and apart from the sequence produced by the
Pause key, and apart from shiftstate related scancodes, and apart from the key
up/down bit, the stream of scancodes consists of unescaped scancodes xx (7
bits) and escaped scancodes e0 xx (8+7 bits).  To these scancodes or scancode
pairs, a corresponding keycode can be assigned (in the range 1-127).  For
example, if you have a Macro key that produces e0 6f according to the command
will assign the keycode 112 to it, and then can be used to define the function
of this key.

USB keyboards have standardized keycodes and doesn't affect them at all.  Some
older kernels might hardwire a low scancode range to the equivalent keycodes;
setkeycodes will fail when you try to remap these.

In 2.6 kernels key codes lie in the range 1-255, instead of 1-127.  (It might
be best to confine oneself to the range 1-239.)	 In 2.6 kernels raw mode, or
scancode mode, is not very raw at all.	The code returned by showkey -s will
change after use of setkeycodes.  A kernel bug. See also -C, --console=DEV the
console device to be used.  -V, --version print version number.	 -h, --help
print this usage message.  The keycodes of X have nothing to do with those of
Linux.	Unusual keys can be made visible under Linux, but not under X.

affects only the "first" input device that has modifiable scancode-to-keycode
mapping.  If there is more than one such device, cannot change the mapping of
other devices than the "first" one.



