bash - GNU Bourne-Again SHell [options] [command_string | file] Bash is
Copyright (C) 1989-2025 by the Free Software Foundation, Inc.  is a command
language interpreter that executes commands read from the standard input, from
a string, or from a file.  It is a reimplementation and extension of the
Bourne shell, the historical Unix command language interpreter.	 also
incorporates useful features from the Korn and C shells (ksh and csh).	is the
name for a family of computing standards based on Unix.	 is intended to be a
conformant implementation of the Shell and Utilities portion of the IEEE
specification (IEEE Standard 1003.1).  mode (hereafter referred to as posix
mode) changes the shell's behavior where its default operation differs from
the standard to strictly conform to the standard.  See below for a reference
to a document that details how posix mode affects bash's behavior.  can be
configured to be -conformant by default.  All of the single-character shell
options documented in the description of the set builtin command, including
-o, can be used as options when the shell is invoked.  In addition, bash
interprets the following options when it is invoked: If the option is present,
then commands are read from the first non-option argument If there are
arguments after the the first argument is assigned to and any remaining
arguments are assigned to the positional parameters.  The assignment to sets
the name of the shell, which is used in warning and error messages.  If the
option is present, the shell is Make act as if it had been invoked as a login
shell (see below).  If the option is present, the shell becomes (see below).
If the option is present, or if no arguments remain after option processing,
the shell reads commands from the standard input.  This option allows the
positional parameters to be set when invoking an interactive shell or when
reading input through a pipe.  Print a list of all double-quoted strings
preceded by $ on the standard output.  These are the strings that are subject
to language translation when the current locale is not C or POSIX.  This
implies the -n option; no commands will be executed.  shopt_option is one of
the shell options accepted by the shopt builtin (see below).  If shopt_option
is present, -O sets the value of that option; +O unsets it.  If shopt_option
is not supplied, bash prints the names and values of the shell options
accepted by shopt on the standard output.  If the invocation option is +O, the
output is displayed in a format that may be reused as input.  A signals the
end of options and disables further option processing.	Any arguments after
the are treated as a shell script filename (see below) and arguments passed to
that script.  An argument of is equivalent to --.  also interprets a number of
multi-character options.  These options must appear on the command line before
the single-character options to be recognized.	Arrange for the debugger
profile to be executed before the shell starts.	 Turns on extended debugging
mode (see the description of the option to the builtin below).	Equivalent to
-D, but the output is in the GNU gettext “po” (portable object) file format.
Equivalent to -D.  Display a usage message on standard output and exit
successfully.  --init-file file --rcfile file Execute commands from instead of
the standard personal initialization file ~/.bashrc if the shell is
interactive (see below).  Equivalent to -l.  Do not use the GNU library to
read command lines when the shell is interactive.  Do not read either the
system-wide startup file /etc/profile or any of the personal initialization
files ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bash_login, or ~/.profile.  By default, reads these
files when it is invoked as a login shell (see below).	Do not read and
execute the personal initialization file ~/.bashrc if the shell is
interactive.  This option is on by default if the shell is invoked as Enable
posix mode; change the behavior of bash where the default operation differs
from the standard to match the standard.  The shell becomes restricted (see
below).	 Produce the list of files that are required for the shell script to
run.  This implies '-n' and is subject to the same limitations as compile time
error checking checking; Command substitutions, Conditional expressions and
builtin are not parsed so some dependencies may be missed.  Equivalent to -v.
Show version information for this instance of on the standard output and exit
successfully.  If arguments remain after option processing, and neither the
nor the option has been supplied, the first argument is treated as the name of
a file containing shell commands (a shell script).  When is invoked in this
fashion, is set to the name of the file, and the positional parameters are set
to the remaining arguments.  reads and executes commands from this file, then
exits.	Bash's exit status is the exit status of the last command executed in
the script.  If no commands are executed, the exit status is 0.	 first
attempts to open the file in the current directory, and, if no file is found,
searches the directories in for the script.  A login shell is one whose first
character of argument zero is a or one started with the option.	 An
interactive shell is one started without non-option arguments (unless -s is
specified) and without the option, and whose standard input and standard error
are both connected to terminals (as determined by or one started with the
option.	 sets and includes if the shell is interactive, so a shell script or a
startup file can test this state.  The following paragraphs describe how
executes its startup files.  If any of the files exist but cannot be read,
reports an error.  Tildes are expanded in filenames as described below under
in the section.	 When is invoked as an interactive login shell, or as a non-
interactive shell with the --login option, it first reads and executes
commands from the file /etc/profile, if that file exists.  After reading that
file, it looks for ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bash_login, and ~/.profile, in that
order, and reads and executes commands from the first one that exists and is
readable.  The option may be used when the shell is started to inhibit this
behavior.  When an interactive login shell exits, or a non-interactive login
shell executes the exit builtin command, reads and executes commands from the
files ~/.bash_logout and /etc/bash.bash_logout, if the files exists.  When an
interactive shell that is not a login shell is started, reads and executes
commands from ~/.bashrc, if that file exists.  The option inhibits this
behavior.  The --rcfile file option causes to use file instead of ~/.bashrc.
When is started non-interactively, to run a shell script, for example, it
looks for the variable in the environment, expands its value if it appears
there, and uses the expanded value as the name of a file to read and execute.
behaves as if the following command were executed: if [ -n "$BASH_ENV" ]; then
. "$BASH_ENV"; fi but does not use the value of the variable to search for the
filename.  If is invoked with the name it tries to mimic the startup behavior
of historical versions of as closely as possible, while conforming to the
standard as well.  When invoked as an interactive login shell, or a non-
interactive shell with the --login option, it first attempts to read and
execute commands from /etc/profile and ~/.profile, in that order.  The option
inhibits this behavior.	 When invoked as an interactive shell with the name
looks for the variable expands its value if it is defined, and uses the
expanded value as the name of a file to read and execute.  Since a shell
invoked as does not attempt to read and execute commands from any other
startup files, the option has no effect.  A non-interactive shell invoked with
the name does not attempt to read any other startup files.  When invoked as
enters posix mode after reading the startup files.  When is started in posix
mode, as with the command line option, it follows the standard for startup
files.	In this mode, interactive shells expand the variable and read and
execute commands from the file whose name is the expanded value.  No other
startup files are read.	 attempts to determine when it is being run with its
standard input connected to a network connection, as when executed by the
historical and rarely-seen remote shell daemon, usually rshd, or the secure
shell daemon sshd.  If determines it is being run non-interactively in this
fashion, it reads and executes commands from ~/.bashrc, if that file exists
and is readable.  does not read this file if invoked as sh.  The option
inhibits this behavior, and the option makes bash use a different file instead
of ~/.bashrc, but neither rshd nor sshd generally invoke the shell with those
options or allow them to be specified.	If the shell is started with the
effective user (group) id not equal to the real user (group) id, and the -p
option is not supplied, no startup files are read, shell functions are not
inherited from the environment, the and variables, if they appear in the
environment, are ignored, and the effective user id is set to the real user
id.  If the -p option is supplied at invocation, the startup behavior is the
same, but the effective user id is not reset.  The following definitions are
used throughout the rest of this document.  A space or tab.  A character
belonging to the space character class in the current locale, or for which
isspace(3) returns true.  A sequence of characters considered as a single unit
by the shell.  Also known as a A consisting only of alphanumeric characters
and underscores, and beginning with an alphabetic character or an underscore.
Also referred to as an A character that, when unquoted, separates words.  One
of the following:
|  & ; ( ) < > space tab newline A token that performs a control function.  It
is one of the following symbols: || & && ; ;; ;& ;;& ( ) | |& <newline>
Reserved words are words that have a special meaning to the shell.  The
following words are recognized as reserved when unquoted and either the first
word of a command (see below), the third word of a or command (only in is
valid), or the third word of a command (only in and do are valid): ! case
coproc	do done elif else esac fi for function if in select then until while {
} time [[ ]] This section describes the syntax of the various forms of shell
commands.  A simple command is a sequence of optional variable assignments
followed by blank-separated words and redirections, and terminated by a
control operator.  The first word specifies the command to be executed, and is
passed as argument zero.  The remaining words are passed as arguments to the
invoked command.  The return value of a simple command is its exit status, or
128+n if the command is terminated by signal A pipeline is a sequence of one
or more commands separated by one of the control operators or |&.  The format
for a pipeline is: [time [-p]] [ ! ] command1 [ [|⎪|&] command2 ... ] The
standard output of is connected via a pipe to the standard input of This
connection is performed before any redirections specified by the below).  If
|& is the pipeline operator, command1's standard error, in addition to its
standard output, is connected to command2's standard input through the pipe;
it is shorthand for 2>&1 |.  This implicit redirection of the standard error
to the standard output is performed after any redirections specified by
command1.  The return status of a pipeline is the exit status of the last
command, unless the pipefail option is enabled.	 If pipefail is enabled, the
pipeline's return status is the value of the last (rightmost) command to exit
with a non-zero status, or zero if all commands exit successfully.  If the
reserved word precedes a pipeline, the exit status of that pipeline is the
logical negation of the exit status as described above.	 If a pipeline is
executed synchronously, the shell waits for all commands in the pipeline to
terminate before returning a value.  If the reserved word precedes a pipeline,
the shell reports the elapsed as well as user and system time consumed by its
execution when the pipeline terminates.	 The -p option changes the output
format to that specified by .  When the shell is in posix mode, it does not
recognize time as a reserved word if the next token begins with a “-”.	The
value of the variable is a format string that specifies how the timing
information should be displayed; see the description of below under When the
shell is in posix mode, time may appear by itself as the only word in a simple
command.  In this case, the shell displays the total user and system time
consumed by the shell and its children.	 The variable specifies the format of
the time information.  Each command in a multi-command pipeline, where pipes
are created, is executed in a subshell, which is a separate process.  See for
a description of subshells and a subshell environment.	If the lastpipe option
is enabled using the shopt builtin (see the description of shopt below), and
job control is not active, the last element of a pipeline may be run by the
shell process.	A list is a sequence of one or more pipelines separated by one
of the operators or and optionally terminated by one of or Of these list
operators, and have equal precedence, followed by and which have equal
precedence.  A sequence of one or more newlines may appear in a list instead
of a semicolon to delimit commands.  If a command is terminated by the control
operator the shell executes the command in the background in a subshell.  The
shell does not wait for the command to finish, and the return status is 0.
These are referred to as asynchronous commands.	 Commands separated by a are
executed sequentially; the shell waits for each command to terminate in turn.
The return status is the exit status of the last command executed.  AND and OR
lists are sequences of one or more pipelines separated by the && and ||
control operators, respectively.  AND and OR lists are executed with left
associativity.	An AND list has the form command1 && command2 is executed if,
and only if, returns an exit status of zero (success).	An OR list has the
form command1 || command2 is executed if, and only if, returns a non-zero exit
status.	 The return status of AND and OR lists is the exit status of the last
command executed in the list.  A compound command is one of the following.  In
most cases a list in a command's description may be separated from the rest of
the command by one or more newlines, and may be followed by a newline in place
of a semicolon.	 (list) list is executed in a subshell (see below for a
description of a subshell environment).	 Variable assignments and builtin
commands that affect the shell's environment do not remain in effect after the
command completes.  The return status is the exit status of list.  { list; }
list is executed in the current shell environment.  list must be terminated
with a newline or semicolon.  This is known as a group command.	 The return
status is the exit status of list.  Note that unlike the metacharacters ( and
), { and } are reserved words and must occur where a reserved word is
permitted to be recognized.  Since they do not cause a word break, they must
be separated from list by whitespace or another shell metacharacter.
((expression)) The arithmetic expression is evaluated according to the rules
described below under If the value of the expression is non-zero, the return
status is 0; otherwise the return status is 1.	The expression undergoes the
same expansions as if it were within double quotes, but unescaped double quote
characters in expression are not treated specially and are removed.  Since
this can potentially result in empty strings, this command treats those as
expressions that evaluate to 0.	 [[ expression ]] Evaluate the conditional
expression expression and return a status of zero (true) or non-zero (false).
Expressions are composed of the primaries described below under The words
between the [[ and ]] do not undergo word splitting and pathname expansion.
The shell performs tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion,
arithmetic expansion, command substitution, process substitution, and quote
removal on those words.	 Conditional operators such as -f must be unquoted to
be recognized as primaries.  When used with [[, the < and > operators sort
lexicographically using the current locale.  When the == and != operators are
used, the string to the right of the operator is considered a pattern and
matched according to the rules described below under Pattern Matching, as if
the extglob shell option were enabled.	The = operator is equivalent to ==.
If the shell option is enabled, the match is performed without regard to the
case of alphabetic characters.	The return value is 0 if the string matches
(==) or does not match (!=) the pattern, and 1 otherwise.  If any part of the
pattern is quoted, the quoted portion is matched as a string: every character
in the quoted portion matches itself, instead of having any special pattern
matching meaning.  An additional binary operator, =~, is available, with the
same precedence as == and !=.  When it is used, the string to the right of the
operator is considered a extended regular expression and matched accordingly
(using the regcomp and regexec interfaces usually described in The return
value is 0 if the string matches the pattern, and 1 otherwise.	If the regular
expression is syntactically incorrect, the conditional expression's return
value is 2.  If the shell option is enabled, the match is performed without
regard to the case of alphabetic characters.  If any part of the pattern is
quoted, the quoted portion is matched literally, as above.  If the pattern is
stored in a shell variable, quoting the variable expansion forces the entire
pattern to be matched literally.  Treat bracket expressions in regular
expressions carefully, since normal quoting and pattern characters lose their
meanings between brackets.  The match succeeds if the pattern matches any part
of the string.	Anchor the pattern using the ^ and $ regular expression
operators to force it to match the entire string.  The array variable records
which parts of the string matched the pattern.	The element of with index 0
contains the portion of the string matching the entire regular expression.
Substrings matched by parenthesized subexpressions within the regular
expression are saved in the remaining indices.	The element of with index n is
the portion of the string matching the nth parenthesized subexpression.	 Bash
sets in the global scope; declaring it as a local variable will lead to
unexpected results.  Expressions may be combined using the following
operators, listed in decreasing order of precedence: Returns the value of
expression.  This may be used to override the normal precedence of operators.
True if is false.  expression1 && expression2 True if both and are true.
expression1 || expression2 True if either or is true.  The && and || operators
do not evaluate expression2 if the value of expression1 is sufficient to
determine the return value of the entire conditional expression.  for name [ [
in word ... ] ; ] do list ; done First, expand The list of words following in,
generating a list of items.  Then, the variable name is set to each element of
this list in turn, and list is executed each time.  If the in word is omitted,
the for command executes list once for each positional parameter that is set
(see below).  The return status is the exit status of the last command that
executes.  If the expansion of the items following in results in an empty
list, no commands are executed, and the return status is 0.  for (( expr1 ;
expr2 ; expr3 )) [;] do list ; done First, evaluate the arithmetic expression
expr1 according to the rules described below under Then, repeatedly evaluate
the arithmetic expression expr2 until it evaluates to zero.  Each time expr2
evaluates to a non-zero value, execute list and evaluate the arithmetic
expression expr3.  If any expression is omitted, it behaves as if it evaluates
to 1.  The return value is the exit status of the last command in list that is
executed, or non-zero if any of the expressions is invalid.  Use the break and
continue builtins (see below) to control loop execution.  select name [ in
word ] ; do list ; done First, expand the list of words following in,
generating a list of items, and print the set of expanded words the standard
error, each preceded by a number.  If the in word is omitted, print the
positional parameters (see below).  then displays the prompt and reads a line
from the standard input.  If the line consists of a number corresponding to
one of the displayed words, then select sets the value of to that word.	 If
the line is empty, select displays the words and prompt again.	If EOF is
read, select completes and returns 1.  Any other value sets to null.  The line
read is saved in the variable The is executed after each selection until a
command is executed.  The exit status of is the exit status of the last
command executed in or zero if no commands were executed.  case word in [ [(]
pattern [ | pattern ] ... ) list ;; ] ... esac A case command first expands
word, and tries to match it against each pattern in turn, proceeding from
first to last, using the matching rules described under below.	A pattern list
is a set of one or more patterns separated by , and the ) operator terminates
the pattern list.  The word is expanded using tilde expansion, parameter and
variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, command substitution, process
substitution and quote removal.	 Each pattern examined is expanded using tilde
expansion, parameter and variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, command
substitution, process substitution, and quote removal.	If the shell option is
enabled, the match is performed without regard to the case of alphabetic
characters.  A clause is a pattern list and an associated list.	 When a match
is found, case executes the corresponding list.	 If the ;; operator terminates
the case clause, the case command completes after the first match.  Using ;&
in place of ;; causes execution to continue with the list associated with the
next pattern list.  Using ;;& in place of ;; causes the shell to test the next
pattern list in the statement, if any, and execute any associated list if the
match succeeds, continuing the case statement execution as if the pattern list
had not matched.  The exit status is zero if no pattern matches.  Otherwise,
it is the exit status of the last command executed in the last list executed.
if list; then list; [ elif list; then list; ] ... [ else list; ] fi The is
executed.  If its exit status is zero, the then list is executed.  Otherwise,
each elif list is executed in turn, and if its exit status is zero, the
corresponding then list is executed and the command completes.	Otherwise, the
else list is executed, if present.  The exit status is the exit status of the
last command executed, or zero if no condition tested true.  while list-1; do
list-2; done until list-1; do list-2; done The while command continuously
executes the list list-2 as long as the last command in the list list-1
returns an exit status of zero.	 The until command is identical to the while
command, except that the test is negated: is executed as long as the last
command in returns a non-zero exit status.  The exit status of the while and
until commands is the exit status of the last command executed in list-2, or
zero if none was executed.  A coprocess is a shell command preceded by the
coproc reserved word.  A coprocess is executed asynchronously in a subshell,
as if the command had been terminated with the & control operator, with a two-
way pipe established between the executing shell and the coprocess.  The
syntax for a coprocess is: coproc [NAME] command [redirections] This creates a
coprocess named NAME.  command may be either a simple command or a compound
command (see above).  NAME is a shell variable name.  If NAME is not supplied,
the default name is COPROC.  The recommended form to use for a coprocess is
coproc NAME { command [redirections]; } This form is preferred because simple
commands result in the coprocess always being named COPROC, and it is simpler
to use and more complete than the other compound commands.  If command is a
compound command, NAME is optional. The word following coproc determines
whether that word is interpreted as a variable name: it is interpreted as NAME
if it is not a reserved word that introduces a compound command.  If command
is a simple command, NAME is not allowed; this is to avoid confusion between
NAME and the first word of the simple command.	When the coprocess is
executed, the shell creates an array variable (see below) named NAME in the
context of the executing shell.	 The standard output of is connected via a
pipe to a file descriptor in the executing shell, and that file descriptor is
assigned to NAME[0].  The standard input of is connected via a pipe to a file
descriptor in the executing shell, and that file descriptor is assigned to
NAME[1].  This pipe is established before any redirections specified by the
command (see below).  The file descriptors can be utilized as arguments to
shell commands and redirections using standard word expansions.	 Other than
those created to execute command and process substitutions, the file
descriptors are not available in subshells.  The process ID of the shell
spawned to execute the coprocess is available as the value of the variable
NAME_PID.  The wait builtin may be used to wait for the coprocess to
terminate.  Since the coprocess is created as an asynchronous command, the
coproc command always returns success.	The return status of a coprocess is
the exit status of command.  A shell function is an object that is called like
a simple command and executes a compound command with a new set of positional
parameters.  Shell functions are declared as follows: fname ()
compound-command [redirection] function fname [()] compound-command
[redirection] This defines a function named fname.  The reserved word function
is optional.  If the function reserved word is supplied, the parentheses are
optional.  The body of the function is the compound command (see Compound
Commands above).  That command is usually a list of commands between { and },
but may be any command listed under Compound Commands above.  If the function
reserved word is used, but the parentheses are not supplied, the braces are
recommended.  compound-command is executed whenever fname is specified as the
name of a simple command.  When in posix mode, fname must be a valid shell
name and may not be the name of one of the special builtins.  In default mode,
a function name can be any unquoted shell word that does not contain $.	 Any
redirections (see below) specified when a function is defined are performed
when the function is executed.	The exit status of a function definition is
zero unless a syntax error occurs or a readonly function with the same name
already exists.	 When executed, the exit status of a function is the exit
status of the last command executed in the body.  (See below.)	In a non-
interactive shell, or an interactive shell in which the option to the builtin
is enabled (see below), a word beginning with introduces a comment.  A word
begins at the beginning of a line, after unquoted whitespace, or after an
operator.  The comment causes that word and all remaining characters on that
line to be ignored.  An interactive shell without the option enabled does not
allow comments.	 The option is enabled by default in interactive shells.
Quoting is used to remove the special meaning of certain characters or words
to the shell.  Quoting can be used to disable special treatment for special
characters, to prevent reserved words from being recognized as such, and to
prevent parameter expansion.  Each of the metacharacters listed above under
has special meaning to the shell and must be quoted if it is to represent
itself.	 When the command history expansion facilities are being used (see
below), the history expansion character, usually !, must be quoted to prevent
history expansion.  There are four quoting mechanisms: the single quotes,
double quotes, and dollar-single quotes.  A non-quoted backslash (\) is the It
preserves the literal value of the next character that follows, removing any
special meaning it has, with the exception of <newline>.  If a \<newline> pair
appears, and the backslash is not itself quoted, the \<newline> is treated as
a line continuation (that is, it is removed from the input stream and
effectively ignored).  Enclosing characters in single quotes preserves the
literal value of each character within the quotes.  A single quote may not
occur between single quotes, even when preceded by a backslash.	 Enclosing
characters in double quotes preserves the literal value of all characters
within the quotes, with the exception of and, when history expansion is
enabled, When the shell is in posix mode, the ! has no special meaning within
double quotes, even when history expansion is enabled.	The characters and
retain their special meaning within double quotes.  The backslash retains its
special meaning only when followed by one of the following characters: ", or
Backslashes preceding characters without a special meaning are left
unmodified.  A double quote may be quoted within double quotes by preceding it
with a backslash.  If enabled, history expansion will be performed unless an
appearing in double quotes is escaped using a backslash.  The backslash
preceding the is not removed.  The special parameters and have special meaning
when in double quotes (see below).  Character sequences of the form $'string'
are treated as a special variant of single quotes.  The sequence expands to
string, with backslash-escaped characters in string replaced as specified by
the ANSI C standard.  Backslash escape sequences, if present, are decoded as
follows: alert (bell) backspace an escape character form feed new line
carriage return horizontal tab vertical tab backslash single quote double
quote question mark The eight-bit character whose value is the octal value nnn
(one to three octal digits).  The eight-bit character whose value is the
hexadecimal value HH (one or two hex digits).  The Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646)
character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHH (one to four hex digits).
The Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value
HHHHHHHH (one to eight hex digits).  A control-x character.  The expanded
result is single-quoted, as if the dollar sign had not been present.  A
double-quoted string preceded by a dollar sign ($"string") causes the string
to be translated according to the current locale.  The gettext infrastructure
performs the lookup and translation, using the LC_MESSAGES, TEXTDOMAINDIR, and
TEXTDOMAIN shell variables.  If the current locale is C or POSIX, if there are
no translations available, or if the string is not translated, the dollar sign
is ignored, and the string is treated as double-quoted as described above.
This is a form of double quoting, so the string remains double-quoted by
default, whether or not it is translated and replaced.	If the
noexpand_translation option is enabled using the shopt builtin, translated
strings are single-quoted instead of double-quoted.  See the description of
below under A is an entity that stores values.	It can be a a number, or one
of the special characters listed below under A is a parameter denoted by a A
variable has a value and zero or more attributes.  Attributes are assigned
using the builtin command (see below in The export and readonly builtins
assign specific attributes.  A parameter is set if it has been assigned a
value.	The null string is a valid value.  Once a variable is set, it may be
unset only by using the builtin command (see below).  A is assigned to using a
statement of the form name=[value] If is not given, the variable is assigned
the null string.  All undergo tilde expansion, parameter and variable
expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal (see
below).	 If the variable has its attribute set, then is evaluated as an
arithmetic expression even if the expansion is not used (see below).  Word
splitting and pathname expansion are not performed.  Assignment statements may
also appear as arguments to the and builtin commands (declaration commands).
When in posix mode, these builtins may appear in a command after one or more
instances of the command builtin and retain these assignment statement
properties.  In the context where an assignment statement is assigning a value
to a shell variable or array index, the “+=” operator appends to or adds to
the variable's previous value.	This includes arguments to declaration
commands such as that accept assignment statements.  When “+=” is applied to a
variable for which the attribute has been set, the variable's current value
and value are each evaluated as arithmetic expressions, and the sum of the
results is assigned as the variable's value.  The current value is usually an
integer constant, but may be an expression.  When “+=” is applied to an array
variable using compound assignment (see below), the variable's value is not
unset (as it is when using “=”), and new values are appended to the array
beginning at one greater than the array's maximum index (for indexed arrays)
or added as additional key-value pairs in an associative array.	 When applied
to a string-valued variable, value is expanded and appended to the variable's
value.	A variable can be assigned the nameref attribute using the -n option
to the declare or local builtin commands (see the descriptions of declare and
local below) to create a nameref, or a reference to another variable.  This
allows variables to be manipulated indirectly.	Whenever the nameref variable
is referenced, assigned to, unset, or has its attributes modified (other than
using or changing the nameref attribute itself), the operation is actually
performed on the variable specified by the nameref variable's value.  A
nameref is commonly used within shell functions to refer to a variable whose
name is passed as an argument to the function.	For instance, if a variable
name is passed to a shell function as its first argument, running declare -n
ref=$1 inside the function creates a local nameref variable ref whose value is
the variable name passed as the first argument.	 References and assignments to
ref, and changes to its attributes, are treated as references, assignments,
and attribute modifications to the variable whose name was passed as $1.  If
the control variable in a for loop has the nameref attribute, the list of
words can be a list of shell variables, and a name reference is established
for each word in the list, in turn, when the loop is executed.	Array
variables cannot be given the nameref attribute.  However, nameref variables
can reference array variables and subscripted array variables.	Namerefs can
be unset using the -n option to the unset builtin.  Otherwise, if unset is
executed with the name of a nameref variable as an argument, the variable
referenced by the nameref variable is unset.  When the shell starts, it reads
its environment and creates a shell variable from each environment variable
that has a valid name, as described below (see A is a parameter denoted by one
or more digits, other than the single digit 0.	Positional parameters are
assigned from the shell's arguments when it is invoked, and may be reassigned
using the builtin command.  Positional parameters may not be assigned to with
assignment statements.	The positional parameters are temporarily replaced
when a shell function is executed (see below).	When a positional parameter
consisting of more than a single digit is expanded, it must be enclosed in
braces (see below).  Without braces, a digit following $ can only refer to one
of the first nine positional parameters ($1-$9) or the special parameter $0
(see the next section).	 The shell treats several parameters specially.	 These
parameters may only be referenced; assignment to them is not allowed.  Special
parameters are denoted by one of the following characters.  ($*) Expands to
the positional parameters, starting from one.  When the expansion is not
within double quotes, each positional parameter expands to a separate word.
In contexts where word expansions are performed, those words are subject to
further word splitting and pathname expansion.	When the expansion occurs
within double quotes, it expands to a single word with the value of each
parameter separated by the first character of the variable.  That is, is
equivalent to where is the first character of the value of the variable.  If
is unset, the parameters are separated by spaces.  If is null, the parameters
are joined without intervening separators.  ($@) Expands to the positional
parameters, starting from one.	In contexts where word splitting is performed,
this expands each positional parameter to a separate word; if not within
double quotes, these words are subject to word splitting.  In contexts where
word splitting is not performed, such as the value portion of an assignment
statement, this expands to a single word with each positional parameter
separated by a space.  When the expansion occurs within double quotes, and
word splitting is performed, each parameter expands to a separate word.	 That
is, is equivalent to If the double-quoted expansion occurs within a word, the
expansion of the first parameter is joined with the expansion of the beginning
part of the original word, and the expansion of the last parameter is joined
with the expansion of the last part of the original word.  When there are no
positional parameters, and expand to nothing (i.e., they are removed).	($#)
Expands to the number of positional parameters in decimal.  ($?) Expands to
the exit status of the most recently executed command.	($-) Expands to the
current option flags as specified upon invocation, by the builtin command, or
those set by the shell itself (such as the option).  ($$) Expands to the
process ID of the shell.  In a subshell, it expands to the process ID of the
parent shell, not the subshell.	 ($!)Expands to the process ID of the job most
recently placed into the background, whether executed as an asynchronous
command or using the bg builtin (see below).  ($0) Expands to the name of the
shell or shell script.	This is set at shell initialization.  If bash is
invoked with a file of commands, is set to the name of that file.  If bash is
started with the option, then is set to the first argument after the string to
be executed, if one is present.	 Otherwise, it is set to the filename used to
invoke as given by argument zero.  The shell sets following variables: ($_, an
underscore) This has a number of meanings depending on context.	 At shell
startup, _ is set to the pathname used to invoke the shell or shell script
being executed as passed in the environment or argument list.  Subsequently,
it expands to the last argument to the previous simple command executed in the
foreground, after expansion.  It is also set to the full pathname used to
invoke each command executed and placed in the environment exported to that
command.  When checking mail, $_ expands to the name of the mail file
currently being checked.  Expands to the full filename used to invoke this
instance of A colon-separated list of enabled shell options.  Each word in the
list is a valid argument for the option to the builtin command (see below).
The options appearing in are those reported as by shopt.  If this variable is
in the environment when starts up, the shell enables each option in the list
before reading any startup files.  If this variable is exported, child shells
will enable each option in the list.  This variable is read-only.  Expands to
the process ID of the current bash process.  This differs from $$ under
certain circumstances, such as subshells that do not require bash to be re-
initialized.  Assignments to have no effect.  If is unset, it loses its
special properties, even if it is subsequently reset.  An associative array
variable whose members correspond to the internal list of aliases as
maintained by the alias builtin.  Elements added to this array appear in the
alias list; however, unsetting array elements currently does not remove
aliases from the alias list.  If is unset, it loses its special properties,
even if it is subsequently reset.  An array variable whose values are the
number of parameters in each frame of the current bash execution call stack.
The number of parameters to the current subroutine (shell function or script
executed with . or source) is at the top of the stack.	When a subroutine is
executed, the number of parameters passed is pushed onto The shell sets only
when in extended debugging mode (see the description of the option to the
builtin below).	 Setting extdebug after the shell has started to execute a
script, or referencing this variable when extdebug is not set, may result in
inconsistent values.  Assignments to have no effect, and it may not be unset.
An array variable containing all of the parameters in the current bash
execution call stack.  The final parameter of the last subroutine call is at
the top of the stack; the first parameter of the initial call is at the
bottom.	 When a subroutine is executed, the shell pushes the supplied
parameters onto The shell sets only when in extended debugging mode (see the
description of the option to the builtin below).  Setting extdebug after the
shell has started to execute a script, or referencing this variable when
extdebug is not set, may result in inconsistent values.	 Assignments to have
no effect, and it may not be unset.  When referenced, this variable expands to
the name of the shell or shell script (identical to see the description of
special parameter 0 above).  Assigning a value to sets $0 to the same value.
If is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently
reset.	An associative array variable whose members correspond to the internal
hash table of commands as maintained by the hash builtin.  Adding elements to
this array makes them appear in the hash table; however, unsetting array
elements currently does not remove command names from the hash table.  If is
unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset.
Expands to the command currently being executed or about to be executed,
unless the shell is executing a command as the result of a trap, in which case
it is the command executing at the time of the trap.  If is unset, it loses
its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset.  The command
argument to the -c invocation option.  An array variable whose members are the
line numbers in source files where each corresponding member of was invoked.
${BASH_LINENO[$i]} is the line number in the source file
(${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]}) where ${FUNCNAME[$i]} was called (or
${BASH_LINENO[$i-1]} if referenced within another shell function).  Use to
obtain the current line number.	 Assignments to have no effect, and it may not
be unset.  A colon-separated list of directories in which the command looks
for dynamically loadable builtins.  Each time this variable is referenced, it
expands to the value returned by the system's monotonic clock, if one is
available.  If there is no monotonic clock, this is equivalent to
EPOCHSECONDS.  If is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is
subsequently reset.  An array variable whose members are assigned by the =~
binary operator to the [[ conditional command.	The element with index 0 is
the portion of the string matching the entire regular expression.  The element
with index n is the portion of the string matching the nth parenthesized
subexpression.	An array variable whose members are the source filenames where
the corresponding shell function names in the array variable are defined.  The
shell function ${FUNCNAME[$i]} is defined in the file ${BASH_SOURCE[$i]} and
called from ${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]}.  Assignments to have no effect, and it may
not be unset.  Incremented by one within each subshell or subshell environment
when the shell begins executing in that environment.  The initial value is 0.
If is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently
reset.	Set to the signal number corresponding to the trap action being
executed during its execution.	See the description of trap under below for
information about signal numbers and trap execution.  A readonly array
variable whose members hold version information for this instance of The
values assigned to the array members are as follows: The major version number
(the release).	The minor version number (the version).	 The patch level.  The
build version.	The release status (e.g., beta).  The value of Expands to a
string describing the version of this instance of (e.g., 5.2.37(3)-release).
An index into ${COMP_WORDS} of the word containing the current cursor
position.  This variable is available only in shell functions invoked by the
programmable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion below).	 The
key (or final key of a key sequence) used to invoke the current completion
function.  This variable is available only in shell functions and external
commands invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see Programmable
Completion below).  The current command line.  This variable is available only
in shell functions and external commands invoked by the programmable
completion facilities (see Programmable Completion below).  The index of the
current cursor position relative to the beginning of the current command.  If
the current cursor position is at the end of the current command, the value of
this variable is equal to ${#COMP_LINE}.  This variable is available only in
shell functions and external commands invoked by the programmable completion
facilities (see Programmable Completion below).	 Set to an integer value
corresponding to the type of attempted completion that caused a completion
function to be called: TAB, for normal completion, ?, for listing completions
after successive tabs, !, for listing alternatives on partial word completion,
@, to list completions if the word is not unmodified, or %, for menu
completion.  This variable is available only in shell functions and external
commands invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see Programmable
Completion below).  The set of characters that the readline library treats as
word separators when performing word completion.  If is unset, it loses its
special properties, even if it is subsequently reset.  An array variable (see
Arrays below) consisting of the individual words in the current command line.
The line is split into words as readline would split it, using as described
above.	This variable is available only in shell functions invoked by the
programmable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion below).	 An
array variable (see Arrays below) created to hold the file descriptors for
output from and input to an unnamed coprocess (see Coprocesses above).	An
array variable (see below) containing the current contents of the directory
stack.	Directories appear in the stack in the order they are displayed by the
builtin.  Assigning to members of this array variable may be used to modify
directories already in the stack, but the and builtins must be used to add and
remove directories.  Assigning to this variable does not change the current
directory.  If is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is
subsequently reset.  Each time this parameter is referenced, it expands to the
number of seconds since the Unix Epoch (see as a floating-point value with
micro-second granularity.  Assignments to are ignored.	If is unset, it loses
its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset.  Each time this
parameter is referenced, it expands to the number of seconds since the Unix
Epoch (see Assignments to are ignored.	If is unset, it loses its special
properties, even if it is subsequently reset.  Expands to the effective user
ID of the current user, initialized at shell startup.  This variable is
readonly.  An array variable containing the names of all shell functions
currently in the execution call stack.	The element with index 0 is the name
of any currently-executing shell function.  The bottom-most element (the one
with the highest index) is “main”.  This variable exists only when a shell
function is executing.	Assignments to have no effect.	If is unset, it loses
its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset.  This variable can
be used with and Each element of has corresponding elements in and to describe
the call stack.	 For instance, ${FUNCNAME[$i]} was called from the file
${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]} at line number ${BASH_LINENO[$i]}.	 The caller builtin
displays the current call stack using this information.	 An array variable
containing the list of groups of which the current user is a member.
Assignments to have no effect.	If is unset, it loses its special properties,
even if it is subsequently reset.  The history number, or index in the history
list, of the current command.  Assignments to have no effect.  If is unset, it
loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset.	 Automatically
set to the name of the current host.  Automatically set to a string that
uniquely describes the type of machine on which is executing.  The default is
system-dependent.  Each time this parameter is referenced, the shell
substitutes a decimal number representing the current sequential line number
(starting with 1) within a script or function.	When not in a script or
function, the value substituted is not guaranteed to be meaningful.  If is
unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset.
Automatically set to a string that fully describes the system type on which is
executing, in the standard GNU cpu-company-system format.  The default is
system-dependent.  An array variable (see Arrays below) created to hold the
text read by the mapfile builtin when no variable name is supplied.  The
previous working directory as set by the command.  The value of the last
option argument processed by the builtin command (see below).  The index of
the next argument to be processed by the builtin command (see below).
Automatically set to a string that describes the operating system on which is
executing.  The default is system-dependent.  An array variable (see below)
containing a list of exit status values from the commands in the most-
recently-executed foreground pipeline, which may consist of only a simple
command (see above).  Bash sets after executing multi-element pipelines, timed
and negated pipelines, simple commands, subshells created with the ( operator,
the and compound commands, and after error conditions that result in the shell
aborting command execution.  The process ID of the shell's parent.  This
variable is readonly.  The current working directory as set by the command.
Each time this parameter is referenced, it expands to a random integer between
0 and 32767.  Assigning a value to initializes (seeds) the sequence of random
numbers.  Seeding the random number generator with the same constant value
produces the same sequence of values.  If is unset, it loses its special
properties, even if it is subsequently reset.  Any numeric argument given to a
command that was defined using “bind -x” (see below) when it was invoked.  The
contents of the line buffer, for use with “bind -x” (see below).  The position
of the mark (saved insertion point) in the line buffer, for use with “bind -x”
(see below).  The characters between the insertion point and the mark are
often called the region.  The position of the insertion point in the line
buffer, for use with “bind -x” (see below).  Set to the line of input read by
the builtin command when no arguments are supplied.  Each time this parameter
is referenced, it expands to the number of seconds since shell invocation.  If
a value is assigned to the value returned upon subsequent references is the
number of seconds since the assignment plus the value assigned.	 The number of
seconds at shell invocation and the current time are always determined by
querying the system clock at one-second resolution.  If is unset, it loses its
special properties, even if it is subsequently reset.  A colon-separated list
of enabled shell options.  Each word in the list is a valid argument for the
option to the builtin command (see below).  The options appearing in are those
reported as by set -o.	If this variable is in the environment when starts up,
the shell enables each option in the list before reading any startup files.
If this variable is exported, child shells will enable each option in the
list.  This variable is read-only.  Incremented by one each time an instance
of is started.	Each time it is referenced, this variable expands to a 32-bit
pseudo-random number.  The random number generator is not linear on systems
that support /dev/urandom or so each returned number has no relationship to
the numbers preceding it.  The random number generator cannot be seeded, so
assignments to this variable have no effect.  If is unset, it loses its
special properties, even if it is subsequently reset.  Expands to the user ID
of the current user, initialized at shell startup.  This variable is readonly.
The shell uses the following variables. In some cases, assigns a default value
to a variable; these cases are noted below.  The value is used to set the
shell's compatibility level.  See below for a description of the various
compatibility levels and their effects.	 The value may be a decimal number
(e.g., 4.2) or an integer (e.g., 42) corresponding to the desired
compatibility level.  If is unset or set to the empty string, the
compatibility level is set to the default for the current version.  If is set
to a value that is not one of the valid compatibility levels, the shell prints
an error message and sets the compatibility level to the default for the
current version.  A subset of the valid values correspond to the compatibility
levels described below under For example, 4.2 and 42 are valid values that
correspond to the compat42 shopt option and set the compatibility level to 42.
The current version is also a valid value.  If this parameter is set when bash
is executing a shell script, its expanded value is interpreted as a filename
containing commands to initialize the shell before it reads and executes
commands from the script.  The value of is subjected to parameter expansion,
command substitution, and arithmetic expansion before being interpreted as a
filename.  is not used to search for the resultant filename.  If set to an
integer corresponding to a valid file descriptor, bash writes the trace output
generated when “set -x” is enabled to that file descriptor, instead of the
standard error.	 The file descriptor is closed when is unset or assigned a new
value.	Unsetting or assigning it the empty string causes the trace output to
be sent to the standard error.	Note that setting to 2 (the standard error
file descriptor) and then unsetting it will result in the standard error being
closed.	 The search path for the command.  This is a colon-separated list of
directories where the shell looks for directories specified as arguments to
the command.  A sample value is “.:~:/usr”.  Set the number of exited child
status values for the shell to remember.  Bash will not allow this value to be
decreased below a -mandated minimum, and there is a maximum value (currently
8192) that this may not exceed.	 The minimum value is system-dependent.	 Used
by the select compound command to determine the terminal width when printing
selection lists.  Automatically set if the option is enabled or in an
interactive shell upon receipt of a An array variable from which bash reads
the possible completions generated by a shell function invoked by the
programmable completion facility (see Programmable Completion below).  Each
array element contains one possible completion.	 If bash finds this variable
in the environment when the shell starts with value “t”, it assumes that the
shell is running in an Emacs shell buffer and disables line editing.  Expanded
and executed similarly to (see above) when an interactive shell is invoked in
posix mode.  A colon-separated list of shell patterns (see Pattern Matching)
defining the set of filenames to be ignored by command search using Files
whose full pathnames match one of these patterns are not considered executable
files for the purposes of completion and command execution via lookup.	This
does not affect the behavior of the [, test, and [[ commands.  Full pathnames
in the command hash table are not subject to Use this variable to ignore
shared library files that have the executable bit set, but are not executable
files.	The pattern matching honors the setting of the extglob shell option.
The default editor for the builtin command.  A colon-separated list of
suffixes to ignore when performing filename completion (see below).  A
filename whose suffix matches one of the entries in is excluded from the list
of matched filenames.  A sample value is “.o:~”.  If set to a numeric value
greater than 0, defines a maximum function nesting level.  Function
invocations that exceed this nesting level cause the current command to abort.
A colon-separated list of patterns defining the set of file names to be
ignored by pathname expansion.	If a file name matched by a pathname expansion
pattern also matches one of the patterns in it is removed from the list of
matches.  The pattern matching honors the setting of the extglob shell option.
Controls how the results of pathname expansion are sorted.  The value of this
variable specifies the sort criteria and sort order for the results of
pathname expansion.  If this variable is unset or set to the null string,
pathname expansion uses the historical behavior of sorting by name, in
ascending lexicographic order as determined by the shell variable.  If set, a
valid value begins with an optional +, which is ignored, or -, which reverses
the sort order from ascending to descending, followed by a sort specifier.
The valid sort specifiers are and which sort the files on name, names in
numeric rather than lexicographic order, file size, modification time, access
time, inode change time, and number of blocks, respectively.  If any of the
non-name keys compare as equal (e.g., if two files are the same size), sorting
uses the name as a secondary sort key.	For example, a value of -mtime sorts
the results in descending order by modification time (newest first).  The
numeric specifier treats names consisting solely of digits as numbers and
sorts them using their numeric value (so “2” sorts before “10”, for example).
When using numeric, names containing non-digits sort after all the all-digit
names and are sorted by name using the traditional behavior.  A sort specifier
of nosort disables sorting completely; returns the results in the order they
are read from the file system, ignoring any leading -.	If the sort specifier
is missing, it defaults to name, so a value of + is equivalent to the null
string, and a value of - sorts by name in descending order.  Any invalid value
restores the historical sorting behavior.  A colon-separated list of values
controlling how commands are saved on the history list.	 If the list of values
includes lines which begin with a character are not saved in the history list.
A value of causes lines matching the previous history entry not to be saved.
A value of is shorthand for ignorespace and ignoredups.	 A value of causes all
previous lines matching the current line to be removed from the history list
before that line is saved.  Any value not in the above list is ignored.	 If is
unset, or does not include a valid value, bash saves all lines read by the
shell parser on the history list, subject to the value of If the first line of
a multi-line compound command was saved, the second and subsequent lines are
not tested, and are added to the history regardless of the value of If the
first line was not saved, the second and subsequent lines of the command are
not saved either.  The name of the file in which command history is saved (see
below).	 Bash assigns a default value of ~/.bash_history.  If is unset or
null, the shell does not save the command history when it exits.  The maximum
number of lines contained in the history file.	When this variable is assigned
a value, the history file is truncated, if necessary, to contain no more than
the number of history entries that total no more than that number of lines by
removing the oldest entries.  If the history list contains multi-line entries,
the history file may contain more lines than this maximum to avoid leaving
partial history entries.  The history file is also truncated to this size
after writing it when a shell exits or by the builtin.	If the value is 0, the
history file is truncated to zero size.	 Non-numeric values and numeric values
less than zero inhibit truncation.  The shell sets the default value to the
value of after reading any startup files.  A colon-separated list of patterns
used to decide which command lines should be saved on the history list.	 If a
command line matches one of the patterns in the value of it is not saved on
the history list.  Each pattern is anchored at the beginning of the line and
must match the complete line (bash does not  implicitly append a “*”).	Each
pattern is tested against the line after the checks specified by are applied.
In addition to the normal shell pattern matching characters, “&” matches the
previous history line.	A backslash escapes the “&”; the backslash is removed
before attempting a match.  If the first line of a multi-line compound command
was saved, the second and subsequent lines are not tested, and are added to
the history regardless of the value of If the first line was not saved, the
second and subsequent lines of the command are not saved either.  The pattern
matching honors the setting of the shell option.  subsumes some of the
function of A pattern of “&” is identical to “ignoredups”, and a pattern of “[
]*” is identical to “ignorespace”.  Combining these two patterns, separating
them with a colon, provides the functionality of “ignoreboth”.	The number of
commands to remember in the command history (see below).  If the value is 0,
commands are not saved in the history list.  Numeric values less than zero
result in every command being saved on the history list (there is no limit).
The shell sets the default value to 500 after reading any startup files.  If
this variable is set and not null, its value is used as a format string for to
print the time stamp associated with each history entry displayed by the
history builtin.  If this variable is set, the shell writes time stamps to the
history file so they may be preserved across shell sessions.  This uses the
history comment character to distinguish timestamps from other history lines.
The home directory of the current user; the default argument for the cd
builtin command.  The value of this variable is also used when performing
tilde expansion.  Contains the name of a file in the same format as /etc/hosts
that should be read when the shell needs to complete a hostname.  The list of
possible hostname completions may be changed while the shell is running; the
next time hostname completion is attempted after the value is changed, adds
the contents of the new file to the existing list.  If is set, but has no
value, or does not name a readable file, bash attempts to read /etc/hosts to
obtain the list of possible hostname completions.  When is unset, bash clears
the hostname list.  The that is used for word splitting after expansion and to
split lines into words with the builtin command.  Word splitting is described
below under The default value is “<space><tab><newline>”.  Controls the action
of an interactive shell on receipt of an character as the sole input.  If set,
the value is the number of consecutive characters which must be typed as the
first characters on an input line before exits.	 If the variable is set but
does not have a numeric value, or the value is null, the default value is 10.
If it is unset, signifies the end of input to the shell.  The filename for the
startup file, overriding the default of ~/.inputrc (see below).	 If this
variable appears in the environment when the shell starts, bash assumes that
it is running inside an Emacs shell buffer and may disable line editing,
depending on the value of Used to determine the locale category for any
category not specifically selected with a variable starting with LC_.  This
variable overrides the value of and any other LC_ variable specifying a locale
category.  This variable determines the collation order used when sorting the
results of pathname expansion, and determines the behavior of range
expressions, equivalence classes, and collating sequences within pathname
expansion and pattern matching.	 This variable determines the interpretation
of characters and the behavior of character classes within pathname expansion
and pattern matching.  This variable determines the locale used to translate
double-quoted strings preceded by a $.	This variable determines the locale
category used for number formatting.  This variable determines the locale
category used for data and time formatting.  Used by the select compound
command to determine the column length for printing selection lists.
Automatically set if the option is enabled or in an interactive shell upon
receipt of a If the value is set to a file or directory name and the variable
is not set, informs the user of the arrival of mail in the specified file or
Maildir-format directory.  Specifies how often (in seconds) checks for mail.
The default is 60 seconds.  When it is time to check for mail, the shell does
so before displaying the primary prompt.  If this variable is unset, or set to
a value that is not a number greater than or equal to zero, the shell disables
mail checking.	A colon-separated list of filenames to be checked for mail.
The message to be printed when mail arrives in a particular file may be
specified by separating the filename from the message with a “?”.  When used
in the text of the message, $_ expands to the name of the current mailfile.
For example: MAILPATH='/var/mail/bfox?"You have mail":~/shell-mail?"$_ has
mail!"' can be configured to supply a default value for this variable (there
is no value by default), but the location of the user mail files that it uses
is system dependent (e.g., /var/mail/$USER).  If set to the value 1, displays
error messages generated by the builtin command (see below).  is initialized
to 1 each time the shell is invoked or a shell script is executed.  The search
path for commands.  It is a colon-separated list of directories in which the
shell looks for commands (see below).  A zero-length (null) directory name in
the value of indicates the current directory.  A null directory name may
appear as two adjacent colons, or as an initial or trailing colon.  The
default path is system-dependent, and is set by the administrator who installs
A common value is /usr/local/bin:/usr/local/sbin:
/usr/bin:/usr/sbin:/bin:/sbin If this variable is in the environment when bash
starts, the shell enters posix mode before reading the startup files, as if
the invocation option had been supplied.  If it is set while the shell is
running, bash enables posix mode, as if the command “set -o posix” had been
executed.  When the shell enters posix mode, it sets this variable if it was
not already set.  If this variable is set, and is an array, the value of each
set element is executed as a command prior to issuing each primary prompt.  If
this is set but not an array variable, its value is used as a command to
execute instead.  If set to a number greater than zero, the value is used as
the number of trailing directory components to retain when expanding the \w
and \W prompt string escapes (see below).  Characters removed are replaced
with an ellipsis.  The value of this parameter is expanded (see below) and
displayed by interactive shells after reading a command and before the command
is executed.  The value of this parameter is expanded (see below) and used as
the primary prompt string.  The default value is “\s-\v\$ ”.  The value of
this parameter is expanded as with and used as the secondary prompt string.
The default is “> ”.  The value of this parameter is used as the prompt for
the command (see above).  The value of this parameter is expanded as with and
the value is printed before each command displays during an execution trace.
The first character of the expanded value of is replicated multiple times, as
necessary, to indicate multiple levels of indirection.	The default is “+ ”.
This variable expands to the full pathname to the shell.  If it is not set
when the shell starts, assigns to it the full pathname of the current user's
login shell.  The value of this parameter is used as a format string
specifying how the timing information for pipelines prefixed with the reserved
word should be displayed.  The % character introduces an escape sequence that
is expanded to a time value or other information.  The escape sequences and
their meanings are as follows; the brackets denote optional portions.  A
literal %.  The elapsed time in seconds.  The number of CPU seconds spent in
user mode.  The number of CPU seconds spent in system mode.  The CPU
percentage, computed as (%U + %S) / %R.	 The optional p is a digit specifying
the precision, the number of fractional digits after a decimal point.  A value
of 0 causes no decimal point or fraction to be output.	time prints at most
six digits after the decimal point; values of p greater than 6 are changed to
6.  If p is not specified, time prints three digits after the decimal point.
The optional l specifies a longer format, including minutes, of the form
MMmSS.FFs.  The value of p determines whether or not the fraction is included.
If this variable is not set, bash acts as if it had the value
$'\nreal\t%3lR\nuser\t%3lU\nsys\t%3lS'.	 If the value is null, bash does not
display any timing information.	 A trailing newline is added when the format
string is displayed.  If set to a value greater than zero, the read builtin
uses the value as its default timeout.	The select command terminates if input
does not arrive after seconds when input is coming from a terminal.  In an
interactive shell, the value is interpreted as the number of seconds to wait
for a line of input after issuing the primary prompt.  terminates after
waiting for that number of seconds if a complete line of input does not
arrive.	 If set, bash uses its value as the name of a directory in which bash
creates temporary files for the shell's use.  This variable controls how the
shell interacts with the user and job control.	If this variable is set,
simple commands consisting of only a single word, without redirections, are
treated as candidates for resumption of an existing stopped job.  There is no
ambiguity allowed; if there is more than one job beginning with or containing
the word, this selects the most recently accessed job.	The of a stopped job,
in this context, is the command line used to start it, as displayed by jobs.
If set to the value the word must match the name of a stopped job exactly; if
set to the word needs to match a substring of the name of a stopped job.  The
value provides functionality analogous to the job identifier (see below).  If
set to any other value (e.g., the word must be a prefix of a stopped job's
name; this provides functionality analogous to the %string job identifier.
The two or three characters which control history expansion, quick
substitution, and tokenization (see below).  The first character is the
history expansion character, the character which begins a history expansion,
normally “!”.  The second character is the quick substitution character,
normally “^”.  When it appears as the first character on the line, history
substitution repeats the previous command, replacing one string with another.
The optional third character is the history comment character,	normally “#”,
which indicates that the remainder of the line is a comment when it appears as
the first character of a word.	The history comment character disables history
substitution for the remaining words on the line.  It does not necessarily
cause the shell parser to treat the rest of the line as a comment.  provides
one-dimensional indexed and associative array variables.  Any variable may be
used as an indexed array; the builtin explicitly declares an array.  There is
no maximum limit on the size of an array, nor any requirement that members be
indexed or assigned contiguously.  Indexed arrays are referenced using
arithmetic expressions that must expand to an integer (see ARITHMETIC
EVALUATION below) and are zero-based; associative arrays are referenced using
arbitrary strings.  Unless otherwise noted, indexed array indices must be non-
negative integers.  The shell performs parameter and variable expansion,
arithmetic expansion, command substitution, and quote removal on indexed array
subscripts.  Since this can potentially result in empty strings, subscript
indexing treats those as expressions that evaluate to 0.  The shell performs
tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, arithmetic expansion,
command substitution, and quote removal on associative array subscripts.
Empty strings cannot be used as associative array keys.	 Bash automatically
creates an indexed array if any variable is assigned to using the syntax
name[subscript]=value .	 The is treated as an arithmetic expression that must
evaluate to a number greater than or equal to zero.  To explicitly declare an
indexed array, use (see below).	 declare -a name[subscript] is also accepted;
the subscript is ignored.  Associative arrays are created using .  Attributes
may be specified for an array variable using the and builtins.	Each attribute
applies to all members of an array.  Arrays are assigned using compound
assignments of the form name=(value1 ... valuen), where each value may be of
the form [subscript]=string.  Indexed array assignments do not require
anything but string.  Each value in the list is expanded using the shell
expansions described below under but values that are valid variable
assignments including the brackets and subscript do not undergo brace
expansion and word splitting, as with individual variable assignments.	When
assigning to indexed arrays, if the optional brackets and subscript are
supplied, that index is assigned to; otherwise the index of the element
assigned is the last index assigned to by the statement plus one.  Indexing
starts at zero.	 When assigning to an associative array, the words in a
compound assignment may be either assignment statements, for which the
subscript is required, or a list of words that is interpreted as a sequence of
alternating keys and values: name=( key1 value1 key2 value2 ...).  These are
treated identically to name=( [key1]=value1 [key2]=value2 ...).	 The first
word in the list determines how the remaining words are interpreted; all
assignments in a list must be of the same type.	 When using key/value pairs,
the keys may not be missing or empty; a final missing value is treated like
the empty string.  This syntax is also accepted by the builtin.	 Individual
array elements may be assigned to using the name[subscript]=value syntax
introduced above.  When assigning to an indexed array, if is subscripted by a
negative number, that number is interpreted as relative to one greater than
the maximum index of name, so negative indices count back from the end of the
array, and an index of -1 references the last element.	The “+=” operator
appends to an array variable when assigning using the compound assignment
syntax; see above.  An array element is referenced using ${name[subscript]}.
The braces are required to avoid conflicts with pathname expansion.  If
subscript is @ or *, the word expands to all members of name, unless noted in
the description of a builtin or word expansion.	 These subscripts differ only
when the word appears within double quotes.  If the word is double-quoted,
${name[*]} expands to a single word with the value of each array member
separated by the first character of the special variable, and ${name[@]}
expands each element of name to a separate word.  When there are no array
members, ${name[@]} expands to nothing.	 If the double-quoted expansion occurs
within a word, the expansion of the first parameter is joined with the
beginning part of the expansion of the original word, and the expansion of the
last parameter is joined with the last part of the expansion of the original
word.  This is analogous to the expansion of the special parameters * and @
(see above).  ${#name[subscript]} expands to the length of ${name[subscript]}.
If subscript is * or @, the expansion is the number of elements in the array.
If the used to reference an element of an indexed array evaluates to a number
less than zero, it is interpreted as relative to one greater than the maximum
index of the array, so negative indices count back from the end of the array,
and an index of -1 references the last element.	 Referencing an array variable
without a subscript is equivalent to referencing the array with a subscript of
0.  Any reference to a variable using a valid subscript is valid; creates an
array if necessary.  An array variable is considered set if a subscript has
been assigned a value.	The null string is a valid value.  It is possible to
obtain the keys (indices) of an array as well as the values.  ${!name[@]} and
${!name[*]} expand to the indices assigned in array variable name.  The
treatment when in double quotes is similar to the expansion of the special
parameters @ and * within double quotes.  The builtin is used to destroy
arrays.	 unset name[subscript] unsets the array element at index subscript,
for both indexed and associative arrays.  Negative subscripts to indexed
arrays are interpreted as described above.  Unsetting the last element of an
array variable does not unset the variable.  unset name, where name is an
array, removes the entire array.  unset name[subscript] behaves differently
depending on whether name is an indexed or associative array when subscript is
* or @.	 If name is an associative array, this unsets the element with
subscript * or @.  If name is an indexed array, unset removes all of the
elements but does not remove the array itself.	When using a variable name
with a subscript as an argument to a command, such as with unset, without
using the word expansion syntax described above, (e.g., unset a[4]), the
argument is subject to pathname expansion.  Quote the argument if pathname
expansion is not desired (e.g., unset 'a[4]').	The and builtins each accept a
option to specify an indexed array and a option to specify an associative
array.	If both options are supplied, takes precedence.	 The builtin accepts a
option to assign a list of words read from the standard input to an array.
The and builtins display array values in a way that allows them to be reused
as assignments.	 Other builtins accept array name arguments as well (e.g.,
mapfile); see the descriptions of individual builtins below for details.  The
shell provides a number of builtin array variables.  Expansion is performed on
the command line after it has been split into words.  The shell performs these
expansions: and The order of expansions is: brace expansion; tilde expansion,
parameter and variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, and command
substitution (done in a left-to-right fashion); word splitting; pathname
expansion; and quote removal.  On systems that can support it, there is an
additional expansion available: process substitution.  This is performed at
the same time as tilde, parameter, variable, and arithmetic expansion and
command substitution.  Quote removal is always performed last.	It removes
quote characters present in the original word, not ones resulting from one of
the other expansions, unless they have been quoted themselves.	Only brace
expansion, word splitting, and pathname expansion can increase the number of
words of the expansion; other expansions expand a single word to a single
word.  The only exceptions to this are the expansions of and and, in most
cases, $* and ${name[*]} as explained above (see is a mechanism to generate
arbitrary strings sharing a common prefix and suffix, either of which can be
empty.	This mechanism is similar to pathname expansion, but the filenames
generated need not exist.  Patterns to be brace expanded are formed from an
optional followed by either a series of comma-separated strings or a sequence
expression between a pair of braces, followed by an optional The preamble is
prefixed to each string contained within the braces, and the postscript is
then appended to each resulting string, expanding left to right.  Brace
expansions may be nested.  The results of each expanded string are not sorted;
brace expansion preserves left to right order.	For example, a{d,c,b}e expands
into “ade ace abe”.  A sequence expression takes the form x..y[..incr], where
x and y are either integers or single letters, and incr, an optional
increment, is an integer.  When integers are supplied, the expression expands
to each number between x and y, inclusive.  If either x or y begins with a
zero, each generated term will contain the same number of digits, zero-padding
where necessary.  When letters are supplied, the expression expands to each
character lexicographically between x and y, inclusive, using the C locale.
Note that both x and y must be of the same type (integer or letter).  When the
increment is supplied, it is used as the difference between each term.	The
default increment is 1 or -1 as appropriate.  Brace expansion is performed
before any other expansions, and any characters special to other expansions
are preserved in the result.  It is strictly textual.  does not apply any
syntactic interpretation to the context of the expansion or the text between
the braces.  A correctly-formed brace expansion must contain unquoted opening
and closing braces, and at least one unquoted comma or a valid sequence
expression.  Any incorrectly formed brace expansion is left unchanged.	A “{”
or Q , may be quoted with a backslash to prevent its being considered part of
a brace expression.  To avoid conflicts with parameter expansion, the string
“${” is not considered eligible for brace expansion, and inhibits brace
expansion until the closing “}”.  This construct is typically used as
shorthand when the common prefix of the strings to be generated is longer than
in the above example: mkdir /usr/local/src/bash/{old,new,dist,bugs} or chown
root /usr/{ucb/{ex,edit},lib/{ex?.?*,how_ex}} Brace expansion introduces a
slight incompatibility with historical versions of does not treat opening or
closing braces specially when they appear as part of a word, and preserves
them in the output.  removes braces from words as a consequence of brace
expansion.  For example, a word entered to as “file{1,2}” appears identically
in the output.	outputs that word as “file1 file2” after brace expansion.
Start with the option or disable brace expansion with the option to the
command (see below) for strict sh compatibility.  If a word begins with an
unquoted tilde character (“~”), all of the characters preceding the first
unquoted slash (or all characters, if there is no unquoted slash) are
considered a tilde-prefix.  If none of the characters in the tilde-prefix are
quoted, the characters in the tilde-prefix following the tilde are treated as
a possible login name.	If this login name is the null string, the tilde is
replaced with the value of the shell parameter If is unset, the tilde expands
to the home directory of the user executing the shell instead.	Otherwise, the
tilde-prefix is replaced with the home directory associated with the specified
login name.  If the tilde-prefix is a “~+”, the value of the shell variable
replaces the tilde-prefix.  If the tilde-prefix is a “~-”, the shell
substitutes the value of the shell variable if it is set.  If the characters
following the tilde in the tilde-prefix consist of a number N, optionally
prefixed by a “+” or a “-”, the tilde-prefix is replaced with the
corresponding element from the directory stack, as it would be displayed by
the builtin invoked with the characters following the tilde in the tilde-
prefix as an argument.	If the characters following the tilde in the tilde-
prefix consist of a number without a leading “+” or “-”, tilde expansion
assumes “+”.  The results of tilde expansion are treated as if they were
quoted, so the replacement is not subject to word splitting and pathname
expansion.  If the login name is invalid, or the tilde expansion fails, the
tilde-prefix is unchanged.  Bash checks each variable assignment for unquoted
tilde-prefixes immediately following a or the first and performs tilde
expansion in these cases.  Consequently, one may use filenames with tildes in
assignments to and and the shell assigns the expanded value.  Bash also
performs tilde expansion on words satisfying the conditions of variable
assignments (as described above under when they appear as arguments to simple
commands.  Bash does not do this, except for the declaration commands listed
above, when in posix mode.  The “$” character introduces parameter expansion,
command substitution, or arithmetic expansion.	The parameter name or symbol
to be expanded may be enclosed in braces, which are optional but serve to
protect the variable to be expanded from characters immediately following it
which could be interpreted as part of the name.	 When braces are used, the
matching ending brace is the first “}” not escaped by a backslash or within a
quoted string, and not within an embedded arithmetic expansion, command
substitution, or parameter expansion.  The basic form of parameter expansion
is ${parameter} which substitutes the value of parameter.  The braces are
required when is a positional parameter with more than one digit, or when is
followed by a character which is not to be interpreted as part of its name.
The parameter is a shell parameter as described above PARAMETERS) or an array
reference (Arrays).  If the first character of parameter is an exclamation
point (!), and parameter is not a nameref, it introduces a level of
indirection.  Bash uses the value formed by expanding the rest of parameter as
the new parameter; this new parameter is then expanded and that value is used
in the rest of the expansion, rather than the expansion of the original
parameter.  This is known as indirect expansion.  The value is subject to
tilde expansion, parameter expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic
expansion.  If parameter is a nameref, this expands to the name of the
parameter referenced by parameter instead of performing the complete indirect
expansion, for compatibility.  The exceptions to this are the expansions of
${!prefix*} and ${!name[@]} described below.  The exclamation point must
immediately follow the left brace in order to introduce indirection.  In each
of the cases below, word is subject to tilde expansion, parameter expansion,
command substitution, and arithmetic expansion.	 When not performing substring
expansion, using the forms documented below (e.g., :-), bash tests for a
parameter that is unset or null.  Omitting the colon tests only for a
parameter that is unset.  ${parameter:-word} Use Default Values.  If is unset
or null, the expansion of is substituted.  Otherwise, the value of is
substituted.  ${parameter:=word} Assign Default Values.	 If is unset or null,
the expansion of is assigned to and the expansion is the final value of
Positional parameters and special parameters may not be assigned in this way.
${parameter:?word} Display Error if Null or Unset.  If is null or unset, the
shell writes the expansion of word (or a message to that effect if is not
present) to the standard error and, if it is not interactive, exits with a
non-zero status.  An interactive shell does not exit, but does not execute the
command associated with the expansion.	Otherwise, the value of parameter is
substituted.  ${parameter:+word} Use Alternate Value.  If is null or unset,
nothing is substituted, otherwise the expansion of is substituted.  The value
of parameter is not used.  ${parameter:offset} ${parameter:offset:length}
Substring Expansion.  Expands to up to length characters of the value of
parameter starting at the character specified by offset.  If parameter is @ or
*, an indexed array subscripted by @ or *, or an associative array name, the
results differ as described below.  If :length is omitted (the first form
above), this expands to the substring of the value of parameter starting at
the character specified by offset and extending to the end of the value.  If
offset is omitted, it is treated as 0.	If length is omitted, but the colon
after offset is present, it is treated as 0.  length and offset are arithmetic
expressions (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION below).	If offset evaluates to a
number less than zero, the value is used as an offset in characters from the
end of the value of parameter.	If length evaluates to a number less than
zero, it is interpreted as an offset in characters from the end of the value
of parameter rather than a number of characters, and the expansion is the
characters between offset and that result.  Note that a negative offset must
be separated from the colon by at least one space to avoid being confused with
the :- expansion.  If parameter is @ or *, the result is length positional
parameters beginning at offset.	 A negative offset is taken relative to one
greater than the greatest positional parameter, so an offset of -1 evaluates
to the last positional parameter (or 0 if there are no positional parameters).
It is an expansion error if length evaluates to a number less than zero.  If
parameter is an indexed array name subscripted by @ or *, the result is the
length members of the array beginning with ${parameter[offset]}.  A negative
offset is taken relative to one greater than the maximum index of the
specified array.  It is an expansion error if length evaluates to a number
less than zero.	 Substring expansion applied to an associative array produces
undefined results.  Substring indexing is zero-based unless the positional
parameters are used, in which case the indexing starts at 1 by default.	 If
offset is 0, and the positional parameters are used, $0 is prefixed to the
list.  ${!prefix*} ${!prefix@} Names matching prefix.  Expands to the names of
variables whose names begin with prefix, separated by the first character of
the special variable.  When @ is used and the expansion appears within double
quotes, each variable name expands to a separate word.	${!name[@]}
${!name[*]} List of array keys.	 If name is an array variable, expands to the
list of array indices (keys) assigned in name.	If name is not an array,
expands to 0 if name is set and null otherwise.	 When @ is used and the
expansion appears within double quotes, each key expands to a separate word.
${#parameter} Parameter length.	 Substitutes the length in characters of the
expanded value of parameter.  If is or the value substituted is the number of
positional parameters.	If is an array name subscripted by or the value
substituted is the number of elements in the array.  If is an indexed array
name subscripted by a negative number, that number is interpreted as relative
to one greater than the maximum index of parameter, so negative indices count
back from the end of the array, and an index of -1 references the last
element.  ${parameter#word} ${parameter##word} Remove matching prefix pattern.
The is expanded to produce a pattern just as in pathname expansion, and
matched against the expanded value of using the rules described under below.
If the pattern matches the beginning of the value of then the result of the
expansion is the expanded value of with the shortest matching pattern (the “#”
case) or the longest matching pattern (the “##” case) deleted.	If is or the
pattern removal operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and
the expansion is the resultant list.  If is an array variable subscripted with
or the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of the array in
turn, and the expansion is the resultant list.	${parameter%word}
${parameter%%word} Remove matching suffix pattern.  The word is expanded to
produce a pattern just as in pathname expansion, and matched against the
expanded value of using the rules described under below.  If the pattern
matches a trailing portion of the expanded value of then the result of the
expansion is the expanded value of with the shortest matching pattern (the “%”
case) or the longest matching pattern (the “%%” case) deleted.	If is or the
pattern removal operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and
the expansion is the resultant list.  If is an array variable subscripted with
or the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of the array in
turn, and the expansion is the resultant list.	${parameter/pattern/string}
${parameter//pattern/string} ${parameter/#pattern/string}
${parameter/%pattern/string} Pattern substitution.  The pattern is expanded to
produce a pattern and matched against the expanded value of parameter as
described under below.	The longest match of pattern in the expanded value is
replaced with string.  string undergoes tilde expansion, parameter and
variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, command and process substitution,
and quote removal.  In the first form above, only the first match is replaced.
If there are two slashes separating parameter and pattern (the second form
above), all matches of pattern are replaced with string.  If pattern is
preceded by # (the third form above), it must match at the beginning of the
expanded value of parameter.  If pattern is preceded by % (the fourth form
above), it must match at the end of the expanded value of parameter.  If the
expansion of string is null, matches of pattern are deleted and the /
following pattern may be omitted.  If the patsub_replacement shell option is
enabled using shopt, any unquoted instances of & in string are replaced with
the matching portion of pattern.  Quoting any part of string inhibits
replacement in the expansion of the quoted portion, including replacement
strings stored in shell variables.  Backslash escapes & in string; the
backslash is removed in order to permit a literal & in the replacement string.
Backslash can also be used to escape a backslash; \\ results in a literal
backslash in the replacement.  Users should take care if string is double-
quoted to avoid unwanted interactions between the backslash and double-
quoting, since backslash has special meaning within double quotes.  Pattern
substitution performs the check for unquoted & after expanding string; shell
programmers should quote any occurrences of & they want to be taken literally
in the replacement and ensure any instances of & they want to be replaced are
unquoted.  Like the pattern removal operators, double quotes surrounding the
replacement string quote the expanded characters, while double quotes
enclosing the entire parameter substitution do not, since the expansion is
performed in a context that doesn't take any enclosing double quotes into
account.  If the shell option is enabled, the match is performed without
regard to the case of alphabetic characters.  If is or the substitution
operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and the expansion
is the resultant list.	If is an array variable subscripted with or the
substitution operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the
expansion is the resultant list.  ${parameter^pattern} ${parameter^^pattern}
${parameter,pattern} ${parameter,,pattern} Case modification.  This expansion
modifies the case of alphabetic characters in parameter.  First, the pattern
is expanded to produce a pattern as described below under then examines
characters in the expanded value of parameter against pattern as described
below.	If a character matches the pattern, its case is converted.  The
pattern should not attempt to match more than one character.  Using “^”
converts lowercase letters matching pattern to uppercase; “,” converts
matching uppercase letters to lowercase.  The ^ and , variants examine the
first character in the expanded value and convert its case if it matches
pattern; the ^^ and ,, variants examine all characters in the expanded value
and convert each one that matches pattern.  If pattern is omitted, it is
treated like a ?, which matches every character.  If is or the case
modification operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and
the expansion is the resultant list.  If is an array variable subscripted with
or the case modification operation is applied to each member of the array in
turn, and the expansion is the resultant list.	${parameter@operator}
Parameter transformation.  The expansion is either a transformation of the
value of parameter or information about parameter itself, depending on the
value of operator.  Each operator is a single letter: The expansion is a
string that is the value of parameter with lowercase alphabetic characters
converted to uppercase.	 The expansion is a string that is the value of
parameter with the first character converted to uppercase, if it is
alphabetic.  The expansion is a string that is the value of parameter with
uppercase alphabetic characters converted to lowercase.	 The expansion is a
string that is the value of parameter quoted in a format that can be reused as
input.	The expansion is a string that is the value of parameter with
backslash escape sequences expanded as with the $'...' quoting mechanism.  The
expansion is a string that is the result of expanding the value of parameter
as if it were a prompt string (see PROMPTING below).  The expansion is a
string in the form of an assignment statement or declare command that, if
evaluated, recreates parameter with its attributes and value.  Produces a
possibly-quoted version of the value of parameter, except that it prints the
values of indexed and associative arrays as a sequence of quoted key-value
pairs (see Arrays above).  The keys and values are quoted in a format that can
be reused as input.  The expansion is a string consisting of flag values
representing parameter's attributes.  Like the K transformation, but expands
the keys and values of indexed and associative arrays to separate words after
word splitting.	 If is or the operation is applied to each positional
parameter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list.  If is an array
variable subscripted with or the operation is applied to each member of the
array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list.	 The result of the
expansion is subject to word splitting and pathname expansion as described
below.	Command substitution allows the output of a command to replace the
command itself.	 There are two standard forms: $(command) or (deprecated)
`command`.  performs the expansion by executing command in a subshell
environment and replacing the command substitution with the standard output of
the command, with any trailing newlines deleted.  Embedded newlines are not
deleted, but they may be removed during word splitting.	 The command
substitution $(cat file) can be replaced by the equivalent but faster $(<
file).	With the old-style backquote form of substitution, backslash retains
its literal meaning except when followed by or The first backquote not
preceded by a backslash terminates the command substitution.  When using the
$(command) form, all characters between the parentheses make up the command;
none are treated specially.  There is an alternate form of command
substitution: ${c command;} which executes command in the current execution
environment and captures its output, again with trailing newlines removed.
The character c following the open brace must be a space, tab, newline, or |,
and the close brace must be in a position where a reserved word may appear
(i.e., preceded by a command terminator such as semicolon).  Bash allows the
close brace to be joined to the remaining characters in the word without being
followed by a shell metacharacter as a reserved word would usually require.
Any side effects of command take effect immediately in the current execution
environment and persist in the current environment after the command completes
(e.g., the exit builtin exits the shell).  This type of command substitution
superficially resembles executing an unnamed shell function: local variables
are created as when a shell function is executing, and the return builtin
forces command to complete; however, the rest of the execution environment,
including the positional parameters, is shared with the caller.	 If the first
character following the open brace is a |, the construct expands to the value
of the REPLY shell variable after command executes, without removing any
trailing newlines, and the standard output of command remains the same as in
the calling shell.  Bash creates REPLY as an initially-unset local variable
when command executes, and restores REPLY to the value it had before the
command substitution after command completes, as with any local variable.
Command substitutions may be nested.  To nest when using the backquoted form,
escape the inner backquotes with backslashes.  If the substitution appears
within double quotes, bash does not perform word splitting and pathname
expansion on the results.  Arithmetic expansion evaluates an arithmetic
expression and substitutes the result.	The format for arithmetic expansion
is: $((expression)) The undergoes the same expansions as if it were within
double quotes, but unescaped double quote characters in expression are not
treated specially and are removed.  All tokens in the expression undergo
parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, and quote removal.
The result is treated as the arithmetic expression to be evaluated.  Since the
way Bash handles double quotes can potentially result in empty strings,
arithmetic expansion treats those as expressions that evaluate to 0.
Arithmetic expansions may be nested.  The evaluation is performed according to
the rules listed below under If is invalid, prints a message to standard error
indicating failure, does not perform the substitution, and does not execute
the command associated with the expansion.  Process substitution allows a
process's input or output to be referred to using a filename.  It takes the
form of <(list) or >(list).  The process list is run asynchronously, and its
input or output appears as a filename.	This filename is passed as an argument
to the current command as the result of the expansion.	If the >(list) form is
used, writing to the file provides input for list.  If the <(list) form is
used, reading the file obtains the output of list.  No space may appear
between the < or > and the left parenthesis, otherwise the construct would be
interpreted as a redirection.  Process substitution is supported on systems
that support named pipes (FIFOs) or the /dev/fd method of naming open files.
When available, process substitution is performed simultaneously with
parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic
expansion.  The shell scans the results of parameter expansion, command
substitution, and arithmetic expansion that did not occur within double quotes
for Words that were not expanded are not split.	 The shell treats each
character of as a delimiter, and splits the results of the other expansions
into words using these characters as field terminators.	 An IFS whitespace
character is whitespace as defined above (see Definitions) that appears in the
value of Space, tab, and newline are always considered IFS whitespace, even if
they don't appear in the locale's space category.  If is unset, field
splitting acts as if its value were and treats these characters as IFS
whitespace.  If the value of is null, no word splitting occurs, but implicit
null arguments (see below) are still removed.  Word splitting begins by
removing sequences of IFS whitespace characters from the beginning and end of
the results of the previous expansions, then splits the remaining words.  If
the value of consists solely of IFS whitespace, any sequence of IFS whitespace
characters delimits a field, so a field consists of characters that are not
unquoted IFS whitespace, and null fields result only from quoting.  If
contains a non-whitespace character, then any character in the value of that
is not IFS whitespace, along with any adjacent IFS whitespace characters,
delimits a field.  This means that adjacent non-IFS-whitespace delimiters
produce a null field.  A sequence of IFS whitespace characters also delimits a
field.	Explicit null arguments ("" or '') are retained and passed to commands
as empty strings.  Unquoted implicit null arguments, resulting from the
expansion of parameters that have no values, are removed.  Expanding a
parameter with no value within double quotes produces a null field, which is
retained and passed to a command as an empty string.  When a quoted null
argument appears as part of a word whose expansion is non-null, word splitting
removes the null argument portion, leaving the non-null expansion.  That is,
the word “-d''” becomes “-d” after word splitting and null argument removal.
After word splitting, unless the option has been set, scans each word for the
characters and If one of these characters appears, and is not quoted, then the
word is regarded as a and replaced with a sorted list of filenames matching
the pattern (see below) subject to the value of the GLOBSORT shell variable.
If no matching filenames are found, and the shell option is not enabled, the
word is left unchanged.	 If the option is set, and no matches are found, the
word is removed.  If the shell option is set, and no matches are found, bash
prints an error message and does not execute the command.  If the shell option
is enabled, the match is performed without regard to the case of alphabetic
characters.  When a pattern is used for pathname expansion, the character “.”
at the start of a name or immediately following a slash must be matched
explicitly, unless the shell option is set.  In order to match the filenames .
and .., the pattern must begin with “.” (for example, “.?”), even if is set.
If the shell option is enabled, the filenames . and .. never match, even if
the pattern begins with a “.”.	When not matching pathnames, the “.” character
is not treated specially.  When matching a pathname, the slash character must
always be matched explicitly by a slash in the pattern, but in other matching
contexts it can be matched by a special pattern character as described below
under See the description of below under for a description of the and shell
options.  The shell variable may be used to restrict the set of file names
matching a If is set, each matching file name that also matches one of the
patterns in is removed from the list of matches.  If the nocaseglob option is
set, the matching against the patterns in is performed without regard to case.
The filenames . and .. are always ignored when is set and not null.  However,
setting to a non-null value has the effect of enabling the shell option, so
all other filenames beginning with a “.” match.	 To get the old behavior of
ignoring filenames beginning with a “.”, make “.*” one of the patterns in .
The option is disabled when is unset.  The pattern matching honors the setting
of the extglob shell option.  The value of the shell variable controls how the
results of pathname expansion are sorted, as described above under Any
character that appears in a pattern, other than the special pattern characters
described below, matches itself.  The NUL character may not occur in a
pattern.  A backslash escapes the following character; the escaping backslash
is discarded when matching.  The special pattern characters must be quoted if
they are to be matched literally.  The special pattern characters have the
following meanings: Matches any string, including the null string.  When the
globstar shell option is enabled, and * is used in a pathname expansion
context, two adjacent *s used as a single pattern match all files and zero or
more directories and subdirectories.  If followed by a /, two adjacent *s
match only directories and subdirectories.  Matches any single character.
Matches any one of the characters enclosed between the brackets.  This is
known as a bracket expression and matches a single character.  A pair of
characters separated by a hyphen denotes a range expression; any character
that falls between those two characters, inclusive, using the current locale's
collating sequence and character set, matches.	If the first character
following the is a or a then any character not within the range matches.  To
match a include it as the first or last character in the set.  To match a
include it as the first character in the set.  The sorting order of characters
in range expressions, and the characters included in the range, are determined
by the current locale and the values of the or shell variables, if set.	 To
obtain the traditional interpretation of range expressions, where is
equivalent to set the value of the or shell variables to or enable the shell
option.	 Within a bracket expression, character classes can be specified using
the syntax [:class:], where class is one of the following classes defined in
the standard: alnum alpha ascii blank cntrl digit graph lower print punct
space upper word xdigit A character class matches any character belonging to
that class.  The word character class matches letters, digits, and the
character _.  Within a bracket expression, an equivalence class can be
specified using the syntax [=c=], which matches all characters with the same
collation weight (as defined by the current locale) as the character c.
Within a bracket expression, the syntax [.symbol.] matches the collating
symbol symbol.	If the extglob shell option is enabled using the shopt
builtin, the shell recognizes several extended pattern matching operators.  In
the following description, a pattern-list is a list of one or more patterns
separated by a |.  Composite patterns may be formed using one or more of the
following sub-patterns: ?(pattern-list) Matches zero or one occurrence of the
given patterns.	 *(pattern-list) Matches zero or more occurrences of the given
patterns.  +(pattern-list) Matches one or more occurrences of the given
patterns.  @(pattern-list) Matches one of the given patterns.  !(pattern-list)
Matches anything except one of the given patterns.  The extglob option changes
the behavior of the parser, since the parentheses are normally treated as
operators with syntactic meaning.  To ensure that extended matching patterns
are parsed correctly, make sure that extglob is enabled before parsing
constructs containing the patterns, including shell functions and command
substitutions.	When matching filenames, the dotglob shell option determines
the set of filenames that are tested: when dotglob is enabled, the set of
filenames includes all files beginning with “.”, but . and .. must be matched
by a pattern or sub-pattern that begins with a dot; when it is disabled, the
set does not include any filenames beginning with “.” unless the pattern or
sub-pattern begins with a “.”.	If the shell option is enabled, the filenames
. and .. never appear in the set.  As above, “.” only has a special meaning
when matching filenames.  Complicated extended pattern matching against long
strings is slow, especially when the patterns contain alternations and the
strings contain multiple matches.  Using separate matches against shorter
strings, or using arrays of strings instead of a single long string, may be
faster.	 After the preceding expansions, all unquoted occurrences of the
characters and " that did not result from one of the above expansions are
removed.  Before a command is executed, its input and output may be using a
special notation interpreted by the shell.  Redirection allows commands' file
handles to be duplicated, opened, closed, made to refer to different files,
and can change the files the command reads from and writes to.	When used with
the exec builtin, redirections modify file handles in the current shell
execution environment.	The following redirection operators may precede or
appear anywhere within a or may follow a Redirections are processed in the
order they appear, from left to right.	Each redirection that may be preceded
by a file descriptor number may instead be preceded by a word of the form
{varname}.  In this case, for each redirection operator except and the shell
allocates a file descriptor greater than or equal to 10 and assigns it to
varname.  If {varname} precedes or the value of varname defines the file
descriptor to close.  If {varname} is supplied, the redirection persists
beyond the scope of the command, which allows the shell programmer to manage
the file descriptor's lifetime manually without using the exec builtin.	 The
varredir_close shell option manages this behavior.  In the following
descriptions, if the file descriptor number is omitted, and the first
character of the redirection operator is “<”, the redirection refers to the
standard input (file descriptor 0).  If the first character of the redirection
operator is “>”, the redirection refers to the standard output (file
descriptor 1).	The word following the redirection operator in the following
descriptions, unless otherwise noted, is subjected to brace expansion, tilde
expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic
expansion, quote removal, pathname expansion, and word splitting.  If it
expands to more than one word, reports an error.  The order of redirections is
significant.  For example, the command ls > dirlist 2>&1 directs both standard
output and standard error to the file while the command ls 2>&1 > dirlist
directs only the standard output to file because the standard error was
directed to the standard output before the standard output was redirected to
Bash handles several filenames specially when they are used in redirections,
as described in the following table.  If the operating system on which bash is
running provides these special files, bash uses them; otherwise it emulates
them internally with the behavior described below.  If fd is a valid integer,
duplicate file descriptor fd.  File descriptor 0 is duplicated.	 File
descriptor 1 is duplicated.  File descriptor 2 is duplicated.  If host is a
valid hostname or Internet address, and port is an integer port number or
service name, bash attempts to open the corresponding TCP socket.  If host is
a valid hostname or Internet address, and port is an integer port number or
service name, bash attempts to open the corresponding UDP socket.  A failure
to open or create a file causes the redirection to fail.  Redirections using
file descriptors greater than 9 should be used with care, as they may conflict
with file descriptors the shell uses internally.  Redirecting input opens the
file whose name results from the expansion of for reading on file descriptor
or the standard input (file descriptor 0) if is not specified.	The general
format for redirecting input is: [n]<word Redirecting output opens the file
whose name results from the expansion of for writing on file descriptor or the
standard output (file descriptor 1) if is not specified.  If the file does not
exist it is created; if it does exist it is truncated to zero size.  The
general format for redirecting output is: [n]>word If the redirection operator
is and the option to the builtin command has been enabled, the redirection
fails if the file whose name results from the expansion of word exists and is
a regular file.	 If the redirection operator is or the redirection operator is
and the option to the builtin is not enabled, bash attempts the redirection
even if the file named by word exists.	Redirecting output in this fashion
opens the file whose name results from the expansion of for appending on file
descriptor or the standard output (file descriptor 1) if is not specified.  If
the file does not exist it is created.	The general format for appending
output is: [n]>>word This construct redirects both the standard output (file
descriptor 1) and the standard error output (file descriptor 2) to the file
whose name is the expansion of There are two formats for redirecting standard
output and standard error: &>word and >&word Of the two forms, the first is
preferred.  This is semantically equivalent to >word 2>&1 When using the
second form, word may not expand to a number or -.  If it does, other
redirection operators apply (see Duplicating File Descriptors below) for
compatibility reasons.	This construct appends both the standard output (file
descriptor 1) and the standard error output (file descriptor 2) to the file
whose name is the expansion of The format for appending standard output and
standard error is: &>>word This is semantically equivalent to >>word 2>&1 (see
Duplicating File Descriptors below).  This type of redirection instructs the
shell to read input from the current source until it reads a line containing
only (with no trailing blanks).	 All of the lines read up to that point then
become the standard input (or file descriptor n if n is specified) for a
command.  The format of here-documents is:
[n]<<[-]word
	here-document
delimiter
The shell does not perform parameter and variable expansion, command
substitution, arithmetic expansion, or pathname expansion on If any part of is
quoted, the is the result of quote removal on and the lines in the here-
document are not expanded.  If word is unquoted, the is word itself, and the
here-document text is treated similarly to a double-quoted string: all lines
of the here-document are subjected to parameter expansion, command
substitution, and arithmetic expansion, the character sequence is treated
literally, and must be used to quote the characters and however, double quote
characters have no special meaning.  If the redirection operator is then the
shell strips all leading tab characters from input lines and the line
containing This allows here-documents within shell scripts to be indented in a
natural fashion.  If the delimiter is not quoted, the sequence is treated as a
line continuation: the two lines are joined and the backslash-newline is
removed.  This happens while reading the here-document, before the check for
the ending delimiter, so joined lines can form the end delimiter.  A variant
of here documents, the format is:
[n]<<<word
The word undergoes tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command
substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal.	Pathname expansion and
word splitting are not performed.  The result is supplied as a single string,
with a newline appended, to the command on its standard input (or file
descriptor n if n is specified).  The redirection operator [n]<&word is used
to duplicate input file descriptors.  If expands to one or more digits, file
descriptor is made to be a copy of that file descriptor.  It is a redirection
error if the digits in do not specify a file descriptor open for input.	 If
evaluates to file descriptor is closed.	 If is not specified, this uses the
standard input (file descriptor 0).  The operator [n]>&word is used similarly
to duplicate output file descriptors.  If is not specified, this uses the
standard output (file descriptor 1).  It is a redirection error if the digits
in do not specify a file descriptor open for output.  If evaluates to file
descriptor is closed.  As a special case, if n is omitted, and word does not
expand to one or more digits or -, this redirects the standard output and
standard error as described previously.	 The redirection operator [n]<&digit-
moves the file descriptor digit to file descriptor or the standard input (file
descriptor 0) if n is not specified.  digit is closed after being duplicated
to n.  Similarly, the redirection operator [n]>&digit- moves the file
descriptor digit to file descriptor or the standard output (file descriptor 1)
if n is not specified.	The redirection operator [n]<>word opens the file
whose name is the expansion of for both reading and writing on file descriptor
or on file descriptor 0 if is not specified.  If the file does not exist, it
is created.  Aliases allow a string to be substituted for a word that is in a
position in the input where it can be the first word of a simple command.
Aliases have names and corresponding values that are set and unset using the
alias and unalias builtin commands (see below).	 If the shell reads an
unquoted word in the right position, it checks the word to see if it matches
an alias name.	If it matches, the shell replaces the word with the alias
value, and reads that value as if it had been read instead of the word.	 The
shell doesn't look at any characters following the word before attempting
alias substitution.  The characters /, $, `, and = and any of the shell
metacharacters or quoting characters listed above may not appear in an alias
name.  The replacement text may contain any valid shell input, including shell
metacharacters.	 The first word of the replacement text is tested for aliases,
but a word that is identical to an alias being expanded is not expanded a
second time.  This means that one may alias to for instance, and does not try
to recursively expand the replacement text.  If the last character of the
alias value is a the shell checks the next command word following the alias
for alias expansion.  Aliases are created and listed with the command, and
removed with the command.  There is no mechanism for using arguments in the
replacement text.  If arguments are needed, use a shell function (see below)
instead.  Aliases are not expanded when the shell is not interactive, unless
the shell option is set using (see the description of under below).  The rules
concerning the definition and use of aliases are somewhat confusing.  always
reads at least one complete line of input, and all lines that make up a
compound command, before executing any of the commands on that line or the
compound command.  Aliases are expanded when a command is read, not when it is
executed.  Therefore, an alias definition appearing on the same line as
another command does not take effect until the shell reads the next line of
input, and an alias definition in a compound command does not take effect
until the shell parses and executes the entire compound command.  The commands
following the alias definition on that line, or in the rest of a compound
command, are not affected by the new alias.  This behavior is also an issue
when functions are executed.  Aliases are expanded when a function definition
is read, not when the function is executed, because a function definition is
itself a command.  As a consequence, aliases defined in a function are not
available until after that function is executed.  To be safe, always put alias
definitions on a separate line, and do not use in compound commands.  For
almost every purpose, shell functions are preferable to aliases.  A shell
function, defined as described above under stores a series of commands for
later execution.  When the name of a shell function is used as a simple
command name, the shell executes the list of commands associated with that
function name.	Functions are executed in the context of the calling shell;
there is no new process created to interpret them (contrast this with the
execution of a shell script).  When a function is executed, the arguments to
the function become the positional parameters during its execution.  The
special parameter is updated to reflect the new positional parameters.
Special parameter 0 is unchanged.  The first element of the variable is set to
the name of the function while the function is executing.  All other aspects
of the shell execution environment are identical between a function and its
caller with these exceptions: the and traps (see the description of the
builtin under below) are not inherited unless the function has been given the
trace attribute (see the description of the builtin below) or the -o functrace
shell option has been enabled with the set builtin (in which case all
functions inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps), and the trap is not inherited
unless the -o errtrace shell option has been enabled.  Variables local to the
function are declared with the builtin command (local variables).  Ordinarily,
variables and their values are shared between the function and its caller.  If
a variable is declared local, the variable's visible scope is restricted to
that function and its children (including the functions it calls).  In the
following description, the current scope is a currently- executing function.
Previous scopes consist of that function's caller and so on, back to the
“global” scope, where the shell is not executing any shell function.  A local
variable at the current scope is a variable declared using the local or
declare builtins in the function that is currently executing.  Local variables
“shadow” variables with the same name declared at previous scopes.  For
instance, a local variable declared in a function hides variables with the
same name declared at previous scopes, including global variables: references
and assignments refer to the local variable, leaving the variables at previous
scopes unmodified.  When the function returns, the global variable is once
again visible.	The shell uses dynamic scoping to control a variable's
visibility within functions.  With dynamic scoping, visible variables and
their values are a result of the sequence of function calls that caused
execution to reach the current function.  The value of a variable that a
function sees depends on its value within its caller, if any, whether that
caller is the global scope or another shell function.  This is also the value
that a local variable declaration shadows, and the value that is restored when
the function returns.  For example, if a variable var is declared as local in
function func1, and func1 calls another function func2, references to var made
from within func2 resolve to the local variable var from func1, shadowing any
global variable named var.  The unset builtin also acts using the same dynamic
scope: if a variable is local to the current scope, unset unsets it; otherwise
the unset will refer to the variable found in any calling scope as described
above.	If a variable at the current local scope is unset, it remains so
(appearing as unset) until it is reset in that scope or until the function
returns.  Once the function returns, any instance of the variable at a
previous scope becomes visible.	 If the unset acts on a variable at a previous
scope, any instance of a variable with that name that had been shadowed
becomes visible (see below how the localvar_unset shell option changes this
behavior).  The variable, if set to a numeric value greater than 0, defines a
maximum function nesting level.	 Function invocations that exceed the limit
cause the entire command to abort.  If the builtin command is executed in a
function, the function completes and execution resumes with the next command
after the function call.  If return is supplied a numeric argument, that is
the function's return status; otherwise the function's return status is the
exit status of the last command executed before the return.  Any command
associated with the RETURN trap is executed before execution resumes.  When a
function completes, the values of the positional parameters and the special
parameter are restored to the values they had prior to the function's
execution.  The option to the or builtin commands lists function names and
definitions.  The option to or lists the function names only (and optionally
the source file and line number, if the extdebug shell option is enabled).
Functions may be exported so that child shell processes (those created when
executing a separate shell invocation) automatically have them defined with
the option to the builtin.  The -f option to the builtin deletes a function
definition.  Functions may be recursive.  The FUNCNEST variable may be used to
limit the depth of the function call stack and restrict the number of function
invocations.  By default, bash imposes no limit on the number of recursive
calls.	The shell allows arithmetic expressions to be evaluated, under certain
circumstances (see the let and declare builtin commands, the (( compound
command, the arithmetic for command, the [[ conditional command, and
Arithmetic Expansion).	Evaluation is done in the largest fixed-width integers
available, with no check for overflow, though division by 0 is trapped and
flagged as an error.  The operators and their precedence, associativity, and
values are the same as in the C language.  The following list of operators is
grouped into levels of equal-precedence operators.  The levels are listed in
order of decreasing precedence.	 variable post-increment and post-decrement
variable pre-increment and pre-decrement unary minus and plus logical and
bitwise negation exponentiation multiplication, division, remainder addition,
subtraction left and right bitwise shifts comparison equality and inequality
bitwise AND bitwise exclusive OR bitwise OR logical AND logical OR conditional
operator assignment comma Shell variables are allowed as operands; parameter
expansion is performed before the expression is evaluated.  Within an
expression, shell variables may also be referenced by name without using the
parameter expansion syntax.  This means you can use "x", where x is a shell
variable name, in an arithmetic expression, and the shell will evaluate its
value as an expression and use the result.  A shell variable that is null or
unset evaluates to 0 when referenced by name in an expression.	The value of a
variable is evaluated as an arithmetic expression when it is referenced, or
when a variable which has been given the integer attribute using declare -i is
assigned a value.  A null value evaluates to 0.	 A shell variable need not
have its integer attribute turned on to be used in an expression.  Integer
constants follow the C language definition, without suffixes or character
constants.  Constants with a leading 0 are interpreted as octal numbers.  A
leading 0x or 0X denotes hexadecimal.  Otherwise, numbers take the form
[base#]n, where the optional base is a decimal number between 2 and 64
representing the arithmetic base, and n is a number in that base.  If base# is
omitted, then base 10 is used.	When specifying n, if a non-digit is required,
the digits greater than 9 are represented by the lowercase letters, the
uppercase letters, @, and _, in that order.  If base is less than or equal to
36, lowercase and uppercase letters may be used interchangeably to represent
numbers between 10 and 35.  Operators are evaluated in precedence order.  Sub-
expressions in parentheses are evaluated first and may override the precedence
rules above.  Conditional expressions are used by the [[ compound command and
the test and [ builtin commands to test file attributes and perform string and
arithmetic comparisons.	 The test and [ commands determine their behavior
based on the number of arguments; see the descriptions of those commands for
any other command-specific actions.  Expressions are formed from the unary or
binary primaries listed below.	Unary expressions are often used to examine
the status of a file or shell variable.	 Binary operators are used for string,
numeric, and file attribute comparisons.  Bash handles several filenames
specially when they are used in expressions.  If the operating system on which
bash is running provides these special files, bash will use them; otherwise it
will emulate them internally with this behavior: If any file argument to one
of the primaries is of the form /dev/fd/n, then bash checks file descriptor n.
If the file argument to one of the primaries is one of /dev/stdin,
/dev/stdout, or /dev/stderr, bash checks file descriptor 0, 1, or 2,
respectively.  Unless otherwise specified, primaries that operate on files
follow symbolic links and operate on the target of the link, rather than the
link itself.  When used with [[, or when the shell is in posix mode, the < and
> operators sort lexicographically using the current locale.  When the shell
is not in posix mode, the test command sorts using ASCII ordering.  True if
file exists.  True if file exists and is a block special file.	True if file
exists and is a character special file.	 True if file exists and is a
directory.  True if file exists.  True if file exists and is a regular file.
True if file exists and is set-group-id.  True if file exists and is a
symbolic link.	True if file exists and its “sticky” bit is set.  True if file
exists and is a named pipe (FIFO).  True if file exists and is readable.  True
if file exists and has a size greater than zero.  True if file descriptor is
open and refers to a terminal.	True if file exists and its set-user-id bit is
set.  True if file exists and is writable.  True if file exists and is
executable.  True if file exists and is owned by the effective group id.  True
if file exists and is a symbolic link.	True if file exists and has been
modified since it was last accessed.  True if file exists and is owned by the
effective user id.  True if file exists and is a socket.  True if the shell
option is enabled.  See the list of options under the description of the
option to the builtin below.  True if the shell variable is set (has been
assigned a value).  If varname is an indexed array variable name subscripted
by @ or *, this returns true if the array has any set elements.	 If varname is
an associative array variable name subscripted by @ or *, this returns true if
an element with that key is set.  True if the shell variable is set and is a
name reference.	 True if the length of string is zero.	string True if the
length of is non-zero.	string1 == string2 string1 = string2 True if the
strings are equal.  = should be used with the test command for conformance.
When used with the [[ command, this performs pattern matching as described
above (Compound Commands).  string1 != string2 True if the strings are not
equal.	string1 < string2 True if string1 sorts before string2
lexicographically.  string1 > string2 True if string1 sorts after string2
lexicographically.  file1 -ef file2 True if file1 and file2 refer to the same
device and inode numbers.  file1 -nt file2 True if file1 is newer (according
to modification date) than file2, or if file1 exists and file2 does not.
file1 -ot file2 True if file1 is older than file2, or if file2 exists and
file1 does not.	 is one of or These arithmetic binary operators return true if
arg1 is equal to, not equal to, less than, less than or equal to, greater
than, or greater than or equal to arg2, respectively.  and may be positive or
negative integers.  When used with the [[ command, and are evaluated as
arithmetic expressions (see above).  Since the expansions the [[ command
performs on and can potentially result in empty strings, arithmetic expression
evaluation treats those as expressions that evaluate to 0.  When the shell
executes a simple command, it performs the following expansions, assignments,
and redirections, from left to right, in the following order.  The words that
the parser has marked as variable assignments (those preceding the command
name) and redirections are saved for later processing.	The words that are not
variable assignments or redirections are expanded.  If any words remain after
expansion, the first word is taken to be the name of the command and the
remaining words are the arguments.  Redirections are performed as described
above under The text after the = in each variable assignment undergoes tilde
expansion, parameter expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion,
and quote removal before being assigned to the variable.  If no command name
results, the variable assignments affect the current shell environment.	 In
the case of such a command (one that consists only of assignment statements
and redirections), assignment statements are performed before redirections.
Otherwise, the variables are added to the environment of the executed command
and do not affect the current shell environment.  If any of the assignments
attempts to assign a value to a readonly variable, an error occurs, and the
command exits with a non-zero status.  If no command name results,
redirections are performed, but do not affect the current shell environment.
A redirection error causes the command to exit with a non-zero status.	If
there is a command name left after expansion, execution proceeds as described
below.	Otherwise, the command exits.  If one of the expansions contained a
command substitution, the exit status of the command is the exit status of the
last command substitution performed.  If there were no command substitutions,
the command exits with a zero status.  After a command has been split into
words, if it results in a simple command and an optional list of arguments,
the shell performs the following actions.  If the command name contains no
slashes, the shell attempts to locate it.  If there exists a shell function by
that name, that function is invoked as described above in If the name does not
match a function, the shell searches for it in the list of shell builtins.  If
a match is found, that builtin is invoked.  If the name is neither a shell
function nor a builtin, and contains no slashes, searches each element of the
for a directory containing an executable file by that name.  uses a hash table
to remember the full pathnames of executable files (see under below).  Bash
performs a full search of the directories in only if the command is not found
in the hash table.  If the search is unsuccessful, the shell searches for a
defined shell function named command_not_found_handle.	If that function
exists, it is invoked in a separate execution environment with the original
command and the original command's arguments as its arguments, and the
function's exit status becomes the exit status of that subshell.  If that
function is not defined, the shell prints an error message and returns an exit
status of 127.	If the search is successful, or if the command name contains
one or more slashes, the shell executes the named program in a separate
execution environment.	Argument 0 is set to the name given, and the remaining
arguments to the command are set to the arguments given, if any.  If this
execution fails because the file is not in executable format, and the file is
not a directory, it is assumed to be a shell script, a file containing shell
commands, and the shell creates a new instance of itself to execute it.	 Bash
tries to determine whether the file is a text file or a binary, and will not
execute files it determines to be binaries.  This subshell reinitializes
itself, so that the effect is as if a new shell had been invoked to handle the
script, with the exception that the locations of commands remembered by the
parent (see below under are retained by the child.  If the program is a file
beginning with the remainder of the first line specifies an interpreter for
the program.  The shell executes the specified interpreter on operating
systems that do not handle this executable format themselves.  The arguments
to the interpreter consist of a single optional argument following the
interpreter name on the first line of the program, followed by the name of the
program, followed by the command arguments, if any.  The shell has an
execution environment, which consists of the following: Open files inherited
by the shell at invocation, as modified by redirections supplied to the exec
builtin.  The current working directory as set by cd, pushd, or popd, or
inherited by the shell at invocation.  The file creation mode mask as set by
umask or inherited from the shell's parent.  Current traps set by trap.	 Shell
parameters that are set by variable assignment or with set or inherited from
the shell's parent in the environment.	Shell functions defined during
execution or inherited from the shell's parent in the environment.  Options
enabled at invocation (either by default or with command-line arguments) or by
set.  Options enabled by shopt.	 Shell aliases defined with alias.  Various
process IDs, including those of background jobs, the value of $$, and the
value of When a simple command other than a builtin or shell function is to be
executed, it is invoked in a separate execution environment that consists of
the following.	Unless otherwise noted, the values are inherited from the
shell.	The shell's open files, plus any modifications and additions specified
by redirections to the command.	 The current working directory.	 The file
creation mode mask.  Shell variables and functions marked for export, along
with variables exported for the command, passed in the environment.  Traps
caught by the shell are reset to the values inherited from the shell's parent,
and traps ignored by the shell are ignored.  A command invoked in this
separate environment cannot affect the shell's execution environment.  A
subshell is a copy of the shell process.  Command substitution, commands
grouped with parentheses, and asynchronous commands are invoked in a subshell
environment that is a duplicate of the shell environment, except that traps
caught by the shell are reset to the values that the shell inherited from its
parent at invocation.  Builtin commands that are invoked as part of a
pipeline, except possibly in the last element depending on the value of the
lastpipe shell option, are also executed in a subshell environment.  Changes
made to the subshell environment cannot affect the shell's execution
environment.  When the shell is in posix mode, subshells spawned to execute
command substitutions inherit the value of the -e option from their parent
shell.	When not in posix mode, bash clears the -e option in such subshells.
See the description of the inherit_errexit shell option below for how to
control this behavior when not in posix mode.  If a command is followed by a &
and job control is not active, the default standard input for the command is
the empty file /dev/null.  Otherwise, the invoked command inherits the file
descriptors of the calling shell as modified by redirections.  When a program
is invoked it is given an array of strings called the This is a list of
name-value pairs, of the form The shell provides several ways to manipulate
the environment.  On invocation, the shell scans its own environment and
creates a parameter for each name found, automatically marking it for to child
processes.  Executed commands inherit the environment.	The and commands
modify the environment by adding and deleting parameters and functions.	 If
the value of a parameter in the environment is modified, the new value
automatically becomes part of the environment, replacing the old.  The
environment inherited by any executed command consists of the shell's initial
environment, whose values may be modified in the shell, less any pairs removed
by the or commands, plus any additions via the and commands.  If any parameter
assignments, as described above in appear before a the variable assignments
are part of that command's environment for as long as it executes.  These
assignment statements affect only the environment seen by that command.	 If
these assignments precede a call to a shell function, the variables are local
to the function and exported to that function's children.  If the option is
set (see the builtin command below), then parameter assignments are placed in
the environment for a command, not just those that precede the command name.
When invokes an external command, the variable is set to the full pathname of
the command and passed to that command in its environment.  The exit status of
an executed command is the value returned by the waitpid system call or
equivalent function.  Exit statuses fall between 0 and 255, though, as
explained below, the shell may use values above 125 specially.	Exit statuses
from shell builtins and compound commands are also limited to this range.
Under certain circumstances, the shell will use special values to indicate
specific failure modes.	 For the shell's purposes, a command which exits with
a zero exit status has succeeded.  So while an exit status of zero indicates
success, a non-zero exit status indicates failure.  When a command terminates
on a fatal signal N, bash uses the value of 128+N as the exit status.  If a
command is not found, the child process created to execute it returns a status
of 127.	 If a command is found but is not executable, the return status is
126.  If a command fails because of an error during expansion or redirection,
the exit status is greater than zero.  Shell builtin commands return a status
of 0 (true) if successful, and non-zero (false) if an error occurs while they
execute.  All builtins return an exit status of 2 to indicate incorrect usage,
generally invalid options or missing arguments.	 The exit status of the last
command is available in the special parameter $?.  Bash itself returns the
exit status of the last command executed, unless a syntax error occurs, in
which case it exits with a non-zero value.  See also the exit builtin command
below.	When bash is interactive, in the absence of any traps, it ignores (so
that kill 0 does not kill an interactive shell), and catches and handles (so
that the wait builtin is interruptible).  When bash receives it breaks out of
any executing loops.  In all cases, bash ignores If job control is in effect,
ignores and The trap builtin modifies the shell's signal handling, as
described below.  Non-builtin commands bash executes have signal handlers set
to the values inherited by the shell from its parent, unless trap sets them to
be ignored, in which case the child process will ignore them as well.  When
job control is not in effect, asynchronous commands ignore and in addition to
these inherited handlers.  Commands run as a result of command substitution
ignore the keyboard-generated job control signals and The shell exits by
default upon receipt of a Before exiting, an interactive shell resends the to
all jobs, running or stopped.  The shell sends to stopped jobs to ensure that
they receive the (see below for more information about running and stopped
jobs).	To prevent the shell from sending the signal to a particular job,
remove it from the jobs table with the builtin (see below) or mark it not to
receive using If the shell option has been set using sends a to all jobs when
an interactive login shell exits.  If bash is waiting for a command to
complete and receives a signal for which a trap has been set, it will not
execute the trap until the command completes.  If bash is waiting for an
asynchronous command via the wait builtin, and it receives a signal for which
a trap has been set, the wait builtin will return immediately with an exit
status greater than 128, immediately after which the shell executes the trap.
When job control is not enabled, and bash is waiting for a foreground command
to complete, the shell receives keyboard-generated signals such as (usually
generated by ^C) that users commonly intend to send to that command.  This
happens because the shell and the command are in the same process group as the
terminal, and ^C sends to all processes in that process group.	Since bash
does not enable job control by default when the shell is not interactive, this
scenario is most common in non-interactive shells.  When job control is
enabled, and bash is waiting for a foreground command to complete, the shell
does not receive keyboard-generated signals, because it is not in the same
process group as the terminal.	This scenario is most common in interactive
shells, where bash attempts to enable job control by default.  See below for
more information about process groups.	When job control is not enabled, and
bash receives while waiting for a foreground command, it waits until that
foreground command terminates and then decides what to do about the If the
command terminates due to the bash concludes that the user meant to send the
to the shell as well, and acts on the (e.g., by running a trap, exiting a non-
interactive shell, or returning to the top level to read a new command).  If
the command does not terminate due to the program handled the itself and did
not treat it as a fatal signal.	 In that case, bash does not treat as a fatal
signal, either, instead assuming that the was used as part of the program's
normal operation (e.g., emacs uses it to abort editing commands) or
deliberately discarded.	 However, bash will run any trap set on as it does
with any other trapped signal it receives while it is waiting for the
foreground command to complete, for compatibility.  When job control is
enabled, bash does not receive keyboard-generated signals such as while it is
waiting for a foreground command.  An interactive shell does not pay attention
to the even if the foreground command terminates as a result, other than
noting its exit status.	 If the shell is not interactive, and the foreground
command terminates due to the bash pretends it received the itself (scenario 1
above), for compatibility.  refers to the ability to selectively stop
(suspend) the execution of processes and continue (resume) their execution at
a later point.	A user typically employs this facility via an interactive
interface supplied jointly by the operating system kernel's terminal driver
and The shell associates a with each pipeline.	It keeps a table of currently
executing jobs, which the command will display.	 Each job has a job number,
which jobs displays between brackets.  Job numbers start at 1.	When starts a
job asynchronously (in the it prints a line that looks like: [1] 25647
indicating that this job is job number 1 and that the process ID of the last
process in the pipeline associated with this job is 25647.  All of the
processes in a single pipeline are members of the same job.  uses the
abstraction as the basis for job control.  To facilitate the implementation of
the user interface to job control, each process has a process group ID, and
the operating system maintains the notion of a current terminal process group
ID.  This terminal process group ID is associated with the controlling
terminal.  Processes that have the same process group ID are said to be part
of the same process group.  Members of the foreground process group (processes
whose process group ID is equal to the current terminal process group ID)
receive keyboard-generated signals such as Processes in the foreground process
group are said to be processes.	 processes are those whose process group ID
differs from the controlling terminal's; such processes are immune to
keyboard-generated signals.  Only foreground processes are allowed to read
from or, if the user so specifies with “stty tostop”, write to the controlling
terminal.  The system sends a signal to background processes which attempt to
read from (write to when “tostop” is in effect) the terminal, which, unless
caught, suspends the process.  If the operating system on which is running
supports job control, contains facilities to use it.  Typing the character
(typically Control-Z) while a process is running stops that process and
returns control to Typing the character (typically Control-Y) causes the
process stop when it attempts to read input from the terminal, and returns
control to The user then manipulates the state of this job, using the command
to continue it in the background, the command to continue it in the
foreground, or the command to kill it.	The suspend character takes effect
immediately, and has the additional side effect of discarding any pending
output and typeahead.  To force a background process to stop, or stop a
process that's not associated with the current terminal session, send it the
signal using kill.  There are a number of ways to refer to a job in the shell.
The character introduces a job specification (jobspec).	 Job number may be
referred to as A job may also be referred to using a prefix of the name used
to start it, or using a substring that appears in its command line.  For
example, refers to a job whose command name begins with Using on the other
hand, refers to any job containing the string in its command line.  If the
prefix or substring matches more than one job, reports an error.  The symbols
and refer to the shell's notion of the A single % (with no accompanying job
specification) also refers to the current job.	refers to the When a job
starts in the background, a job stops while in the foreground, or a job is
resumed in the background, it becomes the current job.	The job that was the
current job becomes the previous job.  When the current job terminates, the
previous job becomes the current job.  If there is only a single job, %+ and
%- can both be used to refer to that job.  In output pertaining to jobs (e.g.,
the output of the command), the current job is always marked with a and the
previous job with a Simply naming a job can be used to bring it into the
foreground: is a synonym for “fg %1”, bringing job 1 from the background into
the foreground.	 Similarly, “%1 &” resumes job 1 in the background, equivalent
to “bg %1”.  The shell learns immediately whenever a job changes state.
Normally, waits until it is about to print a prompt before notifying the user
about changes in a job's status so as to not interrupt any other output,
though it will notify of changes in a job's status after a foreground command
in a list completes, before executing the next command in the list.  If the
option to the builtin command is enabled, reports status changes immediately.
Bash executes any trap on for each child that terminates.  When a job
terminates and bash notifies the user about it, bash removes the job from the
table.	It will not appear in jobs output, but wait will report its exit
status, as long as it's supplied the process ID associated with the job as an
argument.  When the table is empty, job numbers start over at 1.  If a user
attempts to exit while jobs are stopped (or, if the checkjobs shell option has
been enabled using the shopt builtin, running), the shell prints a warning
message, and, if the checkjobs option is enabled, lists the jobs and their
statuses.  The command may then be used to inspect their status.  If the user
immediately attempts to exit again, without an intervening command, bash does
not print another warning, and terminates any stopped jobs.  When the shell is
waiting for a job or process using the wait builtin, and job control is
enabled, wait will return when the job changes state.  The -f option causes
wait to wait until the job or process terminates before returning.  When
executing interactively, displays the primary prompt when it is ready to read
a command, and the secondary prompt when it needs more input to complete a
command.  examines the value of the array variable PROMPT_COMMAND just before
printing each primary prompt.  If any elements in PROMPT_COMMAND are set and
non-null, Bash executes each value, in numeric order, just as if it had been
typed on the command line.  displays after it reads a command but before
executing it.  displays as described above before tracing each command when
the -x option is enabled.  allows the prompt strings PS0, PS1, PS2, and PS4,
to be customized by inserting a number of backslash-escaped special characters
that are decoded as follows: An ASCII bell character (07).  The date in
“Weekday Month Date” format (e.g., “Tue May 26”).  The format is passed to and
the result is inserted into the prompt string; an empty format results in a
locale-specific time representation.  The braces are required.	An ASCII
escape character (033).	 The hostname up to the first “.”.  The hostname.  The
number of jobs currently managed by the shell.	The basename of the shell's
terminal device name (e.g., “ttys0”).  A newline.  A carriage return.  The
name of the shell: the basename of (the portion following the final slash).
The current time in 24-hour HH:MM:SS format.  The current time in 12-hour
HH:MM:SS format.  The current time in 12-hour am/pm format.  The current time
in 24-hour HH:MM format.  The username of the current user.  The bash version
(e.g., 2.00).  The bash release, version + patch level (e.g., 2.00.0) The
value of the PWD shell variable ($PWD), with abbreviated with a tilde (uses
the value of the variable).  The basename of $PWD, with abbreviated with a
tilde.	The history number of this command.  The command number of this
command.  If the effective UID is 0, a otherwise a The character corresponding
to the octal number nnn.  A backslash.	Begin a sequence of non-printing
characters, which could be used to embed a terminal control sequence into the
prompt.	 End a sequence of non-printing characters.  The command number and
the history number are usually different: the history number of a command is
its position in the history list, which may include commands restored from the
history file (see below), while the command number is the position in the
sequence of commands executed during the current shell session.	 After the
string is decoded, it is expanded via parameter expansion, command
substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal, subject to the value of
the shell option (see the description of the command under below).  This can
have unwanted side effects if escaped portions of the string appear within
command substitution or contain characters special to word expansion.  This is
the library that handles reading input when using an interactive shell, unless
the option is supplied at shell invocation.  Line editing is also used when
using the -e option to the read builtin.  By default, the line editing
commands are similar to those of emacs; a vi-style line editing interface is
also available.	 Line editing can be enabled at any time using the or options
to the builtin (see below).  To turn off line editing after the shell is
running, use the or options to the builtin.  This section uses Emacs-style
editing concepts and uses its notation for keystrokes.	Control keys are
denoted by C-key, e.g., C-n means Control-N.  Similarly, keys are denoted by
M-key, so M-x means Meta-X.  The Meta key is often labeled “Alt” or “Option”.
On keyboards without a key, M-x means ESC x, i.e., press and release the
Escape key, then press and release the key, in sequence.  This makes ESC the
meta prefix.  The combination M-C-x means ESC Control-x: press and release the
Escape key, then press and hold the Control key while pressing the key, then
release both.  On some keyboards, the Meta key modifier produces characters
with the eighth bit (0200) set.	 You can use the enable-meta-key variable to
control whether or not it does this, if the keyboard allows it.	 On many
others, the terminal or terminal emulator converts the metafied key to a key
sequence beginning with ESC as described in the preceding paragraph.  If your
Meta key produces a key sequence with the ESC meta prefix, you can make M-key
key bindings you specify (see below) do the same thing by setting the
force-meta-prefix variable.  commands may be given numeric which normally act
as a repeat count.  Sometimes, however, it is the sign of the argument that is
significant.  Passing a negative argument to a command that acts in the
forward direction (e.g., kill-line) makes that command act in a backward
direction.  Commands whose behavior with arguments deviates from this are
noted below.  The point is the current cursor position, and mark refers to a
saved cursor position.	The text between the point and mark is referred to as
the region.  Readline has the concept of an active region: when the region is
active, readline redisplay highlights the region using the value of the
active-region-start-color variable.  The enable-active-region variable turns
this on and off.  Several commands set the region to active; those are noted
below.	When a command is described as killing text, the text deleted is saved
for possible future retrieval (yanking).  The killed text is saved in a kill
ring.  Consecutive kills accumulate the deleted text into one unit, which can
be yanked all at once.	Commands which do not kill text separate the chunks of
text on the kill ring.	is customized by putting commands in an initialization
file (the inputrc file).  The name of this file is taken from the value of the
shell variable.	 If that variable is unset, the default is ~/.inputrc.	If
that file  does not exist or cannot be read, readline looks for /etc/inputrc.
When a program that uses the readline library starts up, readline reads the
initialization file and sets the key bindings and variables found there,
before reading any user input.	There are only a few basic constructs allowed
in the inputrc file.  Blank lines are ignored.	Lines beginning with a # are
comments.  Lines beginning with a $ indicate conditional constructs.  Other
lines denote key bindings and variable settings.  The default key-bindings in
this section may be changed using key binding commands in the file.  Programs
that use the readline library, including bash, may add their own commands and
bindings.  For example, placing M-Control-u: universal-argument or C-Meta-u:
universal-argument into the would make M-C-u execute the readline command Key
bindings may contain the following symbolic character names: (a destructive
backspace), and In addition to command names, readline allows keys to be bound
to a string that is inserted when the key is pressed (a macro).	 The
difference between a macro and a command is that a macro is enclosed in single
or double quotes.  The syntax for controlling key bindings in the file is
simple.	 All that is required is the name of the command or the text of a
macro and a key sequence to which it should be bound.  The key sequence may be
specified in one of two ways: as a symbolic key name, possibly with Meta- or
Control- prefixes, or as a key sequence composed of one or more characters
enclosed in double quotes.  The key sequence and name are separated by a
colon.	There can be no whitespace between the name and the colon.  When using
the form keyname:function-name or macro, is the name of a key spelled out in
English.  For example:
Control-u: universal-argument
Meta-Rubout: backward-kill-word
Control-o: "> output"
In the above example, is bound to the function is bound to the function and is
bound to run the macro expressed on the right hand side (that is, to insert
the text “> output” into the line).  In the second form,
"keyseq":function-name or macro, differs from above in that strings denoting
an entire key sequence may be specified by placing the sequence within double
quotes.	 Some GNU Emacs style key escapes can be used, as in the following
example, but none of the symbolic character names are recognized.
"\C-u": universal-argument
"\C-x\C-r": re-read-init-file
"\e[11~": "Function Key 1"
In this example, is again bound to the function is bound to the function and
is bound to insert the text “Function Key 1”.  The full set of GNU Emacs style
escape sequences available when specifying key sequences is A control prefix.
Adding the meta prefix or converting the following character to a meta
character, as described below under force-meta-prefix.	An escape character.
Backslash.  Literal ", a double quote.	Literal ', a single quote.  In
addition to the GNU Emacs style escape sequences, a second set of backslash
escapes is available: alert (bell) backspace delete form feed newline carriage
return horizontal tab vertical tab The eight-bit character whose value is the
octal value nnn (one to three digits).	The eight-bit character whose value is
the hexadecimal value HH (one or two hex digits).  When entering the text of a
macro, single or double quotes must be used to indicate a macro definition.
Unquoted text is assumed to be a function name.	 The backslash escapes
described above are expanded in the macro body.	 Backslash quotes any other
character in the macro text, including " and '.	 will display or modify the
current readline key bindings with the builtin command.	 The or options to the
builtin (see below) change the editing mode during interactive use.  Readline
has variables that can be used to further customize its behavior.  A variable
may be set in the file with a statement of the form set variable-name value or
using the bind builtin command (see below).  Except where noted, readline
variables can take the values or (without regard to case).  Unrecognized
variable names are ignored.  When readline reads a variable value, empty or
null values, “on” (case-insensitive), and “1” are equivalent to On.  All other
values are equivalent to Off.  The bind -V command lists the current readline
variable names and values (see below).	The variables and their default values
are: A string variable that controls the text color and background when
displaying the text in the active region (see the description of
enable-active-region below).  This string must not take up any physical
character positions on the display, so it should consist only of terminal
escape sequences.  It is output to the terminal before displaying the text in
the active region.  This variable is reset to the default value whenever the
terminal type changes.	The default value is the string that puts the terminal
in standout mode, as obtained from the terminal's terminfo description.	 A
sample value might be “\e[01;33m”.  A string variable that “undoes” the
effects of active-region-start-color and restores “normal” terminal display
appearance after displaying text in the active region.	This string must not
take up any physical character positions on the display, so it should consist
only of terminal escape sequences.  It is output to the terminal after
displaying the text in the active region.  This variable is reset to the
default value whenever the terminal type changes.  The default value is the
string that restores the terminal from standout mode, as obtained from the
terminal's terminfo description.  A sample value might be “\e[0m”.  Controls
what happens when readline wants to ring the terminal bell.  If set to none,
readline never rings the bell.	If set to visible, readline uses a visible
bell if one is available.  If set to audible, readline attempts to ring the
terminal's bell.  If set to On, readline attempts to bind the control
characters that are treated specially by the kernel's terminal driver to their
readline equivalents.  These override the default readline bindings described
here.  Type “stty -a” at a bash prompt to see your current terminal settings,
including the special control characters (usually cchars).  If set to On,
readline attempts to briefly move the cursor to an opening parenthesis when a
closing parenthesis is inserted.  If set to On, when listing completions,
readline displays the common prefix of the set of possible completions using a
different color.  The color definitions are taken from the value of the
LS_COLORS environment variable.	 If there is a color definition in $LS_COLORS
for the custom suffix “.readline-colored-completion-prefix”, readline uses
this color for the common prefix instead of its default.  If set to On,
readline displays possible completions using different colors to indicate
their file type.  The color definitions are taken from the value of the
LS_COLORS environment variable.	 “#”) The string that the readline command
inserts.  This command is bound to in emacs mode and to in vi command mode.
The number of screen columns used to display possible matches when performing
completion.  The value is ignored if it is less than 0 or greater than the
terminal screen width.	A value of 0 causes matches to be displayed one per
line.  The default value is -1.	 If set to On, readline performs filename
matching and completion in a case-insensitive fashion.	If set to On, and
completion-ignore-case is enabled, treats hyphens (-) and underscores (_) as
equivalent when performing case-insensitive filename matching and completion.
The maximum length in characters of the common prefix of a list of possible
completions that is displayed without modification.  When set to a value
greater than zero, readline replaces common prefixes longer than this value
with an ellipsis when displaying possible completions.	If a completion begins
with a period, and eadline is completing filenames, it uses three underscores
instead of an ellipsis.	 This determines when the user is queried about
viewing the number of possible completions generated by the
possible-completions command.  It may be set to any integer value greater than
or equal to zero.  If the number of possible completions is greater than or
equal to the value of this variable, readline asks whether or not the user
wishes to view them; otherwise readline simply lists them on the terminal.  A
zero value means readline should never ask; negative values are treated as
zero.  If set to On, readline converts characters it reads that have the
eighth bit set to an ASCII key sequence by clearing the eighth bit and
prefixing it with an escape character (converting the character to have the
meta prefix).  The default is On, but readline sets it to Off if the locale
contains characters whose encodings may include bytes with the eighth bit set.
This variable is dependent on the LC_CTYPE locale category, and may change if
the locale changes.  This variable also affects key bindings; see the
description of force-meta-prefix below.	 If set to On, readline inhibits word
completion.  Completion characters are inserted into the line as if they had
been mapped to self-insert.  When set to On, on operating systems that
indicate they support it, readline echoes a character corresponding to a
signal generated from the keyboard.  Controls whether readline uses a set of
key bindings similar to Emacs or vi.  can be set to either or If the
show-mode-in-prompt variable is enabled, this string is displayed immediately
before the last line of the primary prompt when emacs editing mode is active.
The value is expanded like a key binding, so the standard set of meta- and
control- prefixes and backslash escape sequences is available.	The \1 and \2
escapes begin and end sequences of non-printing characters, which can be used
to embed a terminal control sequence into the mode string.  When this variable
is set to On, readline allows certain commands to designate the region as
active.	 When the region is active, readline highlights the text in the region
using the value of the variable, which defaults to the string that enables the
terminal's standout mode.  The active region shows the text inserted by
bracketed-paste and any matching text found by incremental and non-incremental
history searches.  When set to On, readline configures the terminal to insert
each paste into the editing buffer as a single string of characters, instead
of treating each character as if it had been read from the keyboard.  This is
called bracketed-paste mode; it prevents readline from executing any editing
commands bound to key sequences appearing in the pasted text.  When set to On,
readline tries	to enable the application keypad when it is called.  Some
systems need this to enable the arrow keys.  When set to On, readline tries to
enable any meta modifier key the terminal claims to support.  On many
terminals, the Meta key is used to send eight-bit characters; this variable
checks for the terminal capability that indicates the terminal can enable and
disable a mode that sets the eighth bit of a character (0200) if the Meta key
is held down when the character is typed (a meta character).  If set to On,
readline performs tilde expansion when it attempts word completion.  If set to
On, readline modifies its behavior when binding key sequences containing \M-
or Meta- (see Key Bindings above) by converting a key sequence of the form
\M-C or Meta-C to the two-character sequence ESC C (adding the meta prefix).
If is set to Off (the default), readline uses the value of the variable to
determine whether to perform this conversion: if convert-meta is On, readline
performs the conversion described above; if it is Off, readline converts C to
a meta character by setting the eighth bit (0200).  If set to On, the history
code attempts to place point at the same location on each history line
retrieved with previous-history or next-history.  Set the maximum number of
history entries saved in the history list.  If set to zero, any existing
history entries are deleted and no new entries are saved.  If set to a value
less than zero, the number of history entries is not limited.  By default,
bash sets the maximum number of history entries to the value of the HISTSIZE
shell variable.	 Setting history-size to a non-numeric value will set the
maximum number of history entries to 500.  Setting this variable to On makes
readline use a single line for display, scrolling the input horizontally on a
single screen line when it becomes longer than the screen width rather than
wrapping to a new line.	 This setting is automatically enabled for terminals
of height 1.  If set to On, readline enables eight-bit input (that is, it does
not clear the eighth bit in the characters it reads), regardless of what the
terminal claims it can support.	 The default is Off, but readline sets it to
On if the locale contains characters whose encodings may include bytes with
the eighth bit set.  This variable is dependent on the LC_CTYPE locale
category, and its value may change if the locale changes.  The name meta-flag
is a synonym for input-meta.  “C-[C-j”) The string of characters that should
terminate an incremental search without subsequently executing the character
as a command.  If this variable has not been given a value, the characters ESC
and C-j terminate an incremental search.  Set the current readline keymap.
The set of valid keymap names is emacs, emacs-standard, emacs-meta,
emacs-ctlx, vi, vi-command, and vi is equivalent to vi-command; emacs is
equivalent to emacs-standard.  The default value is emacs; the value of also
affects the default keymap.  Specifies the duration readline will wait for a
character when reading an ambiguous key sequence (one that can form a complete
key sequence using the input read so far, or can take additional input to
complete a longer key sequence).  If readline does not receive any input
within the timeout, it uses the shorter but complete key sequence.  The value
is specified in milliseconds, so a value of 1000 means that readline will wait
one second for additional input.  If this variable is set to a value less than
or equal to zero, or to a non-numeric value, readline waits until another key
is pressed to decide which key sequence to complete.  If set to On, completed
directory names have a slash appended.	If set to On, readline displays
history lines that have been modified with a preceding asterisk (*).  If set
to On, completed names which are symbolic links to directories have a slash
appended, subject to the value of mark-directories.  This variable, when set
to On, forces readline to match files whose names begin with a “.” (hidden
files) when performing filename completion.  If set to Off, the user must
include the leading “.” in the filename to be completed.  If set to On, menu
completion displays the common prefix of the list of possible completions
(which may be empty) before cycling through the list.  If set to On, readline
displays characters with the eighth bit set directly rather than as a meta-
prefixed escape sequence.  The default is Off, but readline sets it to On if
the locale contains characters whose encodings may include bytes with the
eighth bit set.	 This variable is dependent on the LC_CTYPE locale category,
and its value may change if the locale changes.	 If set to On, readline uses
an internal pager resembling to display a screenful of possible completions at
a time.	 See bell-style.  If set to On, readline displays completions with
matches sorted horizontally in alphabetical order, rather than down the
screen.	 If set to On, readline will undo all changes to history lines before
returning when executing accept-line.  By default, history lines may be
modified and retain individual undo lists across calls to readline.  If set to
On, readline performs incremental and non-incremental history list searches in
a case-insensitive fashion.  This alters the default behavior of the
completion functions.  If set to words which have more than one possible
completion cause the matches to be listed immediately instead of ringing the
bell.  This alters the default behavior of the completion functions in a
fashion similar to show-all-if-ambiguous.  If set to words which have more
than one possible completion without any possible partial completion (the
possible completions don't share a common prefix) cause the matches to be
listed immediately instead of ringing the bell.	 If set to On, add a string to
the beginning of the prompt indicating the editing mode: emacs, vi command, or
vi insertion.  The mode strings are user-settable (e.g., emacs-mode-string).
If set to On, this alters the default completion behavior when inserting a
single match into the line.  It's only active when performing completion in
the middle of a word.  If enabled, readline does not insert characters from
the completion that match characters after point in the word being completed,
so portions of the word following the cursor are not duplicated.  If the
show-mode-in-prompt variable is enabled, this string is displayed immediately
before the last line of the primary prompt when vi editing mode is active and
in command mode.  The value is expanded like a key binding, so the standard
set of meta- and control- prefixes and backslash escape sequences is
available.  The \1 and \2 escapes begin and end sequences of non-printing
characters, which can be used to embed a terminal control sequence into the
mode string.  If the show-mode-in-prompt variable is enabled, this string is
displayed immediately before the last line of the primary prompt when vi
editing mode is active and in insertion mode.  The value is expanded like a
key binding, so the standard set of meta- and control- prefixes and backslash
escape sequences is available.	The \1 and \2 escapes begin and end sequences
of non-printing characters, which can be used to embed a terminal control
sequence into the mode string.	If set to On, a character denoting a file's
type as reported by stat(2) is appended to the filename when listing possible
completions.  implements a facility similar in spirit to the conditional
compilation features of the C preprocessor which allows key bindings and
variable settings to be performed as the result of tests.  There are four
parser directives available.  The construct allows bindings to be made based
on the editing mode, the terminal being used, or the application using
readline.  The text of the test, after any comparison operator, extends to the
end of the line; unless otherwise noted, no characters are required to isolate
it.  The mode= form of the $if directive is used to test whether readline is
in emacs or vi mode.  This may be used in conjunction with the set keymap
command, for instance, to set bindings in the emacs-standard and emacs-ctlx
keymaps only if readline is starting out in emacs mode.	 The term= form may be
used to include terminal-specific key bindings, perhaps to bind the key
sequences output by the terminal's function keys.  The word on the right side
of the is tested against both the full name of the terminal and the portion of
the terminal name before the first -.  This allows to match both and for
instance.  The version test may be used to perform comparisons against
specific readline versions.  The version expands to the current readline
version.  The set of comparison operators includes (and and The version number
supplied on the right side of the operator consists of a major version number,
an optional decimal point, and an optional minor version (e.g., 7.1).  If the
minor version is omitted, it defaults to 0.  The operator may be separated
from the string version and from the version number argument by whitespace.
The application construct is used to include application-specific settings.
Each program using the readline library sets the application name, and an
initialization file can test for a particular value.  This could be used to
bind key sequences to functions useful for a specific program.	For instance,
the following command adds a key sequence that quotes the current or previous
word in bash:
$if Bash
# Quote the current or previous word
"\C-xq": "\eb\"\ef\""
$endif
The variable construct provides simple equality tests for readline variables
and values.  The permitted comparison operators are =, ==, and !=.  The
variable name must be separated from the comparison operator by whitespace;
the operator may be separated from the value on the right hand side by
whitespace.  String and boolean variables may be tested.  Boolean variables
must be tested against the values on and off.  Commands in this branch of the
$if directive are executed if the test fails.  This command, as seen in the
previous example, terminates an $if command.  This directive takes a single
filename as an argument and reads commands and key bindings from that file.
For example, the following directive would read /etc/inputrc:
$include  /etc/inputrc
provides commands for searching through the command history (see below) for
lines containing a specified string.  There are two search modes: and
Incremental searches begin before the user has finished typing the search
string.	 As each character of the search string is typed, readline displays
the next entry from the history matching the string typed so far.  An
incremental search requires only as many characters as needed to find the
desired history entry.	When using emacs editing mode, type C-r to search
backward in the history for a particular string.  Typing C-s searches forward
through the history.  The characters present in the value of the isearch-
terminators variable are used to terminate an incremental search.  If that
variable has not been assigned a value, ESC and C-j terminate an incremental
search.	 C-g aborts an incremental search and restores the original line.
When the search is terminated, the history entry containing the search string
becomes the current line.  To find other matching entries in the history list,
type C-r or C-s as appropriate.	 This searches backward or forward in the
history for the next entry matching the search string typed so far.  Any other
key sequence bound to a readline command terminates the search and executes
that command.  For instance, a newline terminates the search and accepts the
line, thereby executing the command from the history list.  A movement command
will terminate the search, make the last line found the current line, and
begin editing.	remembers the last incremental search string.  If two C-rs are
typed without any intervening characters defining a new search string,
readline uses any remembered search string.  Non-incremental searches read the
entire search string before starting to search for matching history entries.
The search string may be typed by the user or be part of the contents of the
current line.  The following is a list of the names of the commands and the
default key sequences to which they are bound.	Command names without an
accompanying key sequence are unbound by default.  In the following
descriptions, point refers to the current cursor position, and mark refers to
a cursor position saved by the set-mark command.  The text between the point
and mark is referred to as the region.	has the concept of an active region:
when the region is active, readline redisplay highlights the region using the
value of the variable.	The enable-active-region readline variable turns this
on and off.  Several commands set the region to active; those are noted below.
Move to the start of the current line.	This may also be bound to the Home key
on some keyboards.  Move to the end of the line.  This may also be bound to
the End key on some keyboards.	Move forward a character.  This may also be
bound to the right arrow key on some keyboards.	 Move back a character.	 This
may also be bound to the left arrow key on some keyboards.  Move forward to
the end of the next word.  Words are composed of alphanumeric characters
(letters and digits).  Move back to the start of the current or previous word.
Words are composed of alphanumeric characters (letters and digits).  Move
forward to the end of the next word.  Words are delimited by non-quoted shell
metacharacters.	 Move back to the start of the current or previous word.
Words are delimited by non-quoted shell metacharacters.	 Attempt to move point
to the same physical screen column on the previous physical screen line.  This
will not have the desired effect if the current readline line does not take up
more than one physical line or if point is not greater than the length of the
prompt plus the screen width.  Attempt to move point to the same physical
screen column on the next physical screen line.	 This will not have the
desired effect if the current readline line does not take up more than one
physical line or if the length of the current readline line is not greater
than the length of the prompt plus the screen width.  Clear the screen and, if
possible, the terminal's scrollback buffer, then redraw the current line,
leaving the current line at the top of the screen.  Clear the screen, then
redraw the current line, leaving the current line at the top of the screen.
With a numeric argument, refresh the current line without clearing the screen.
Refresh the current line.  Accept the line regardless of where the cursor is.
If this line is non-empty, add it to the history list according to the state
of the and variables.  If the line is a modified history line, restore the
history line to its original state.  Fetch the previous command from the
history list, moving back in the list.	This may also be bound to the up arrow
key on some keyboards.	Fetch the next command from the history list, moving
forward in the list.  This may also be bound to the down arrow key on some
keyboards.  Move to the first line in the history.  Move to the end of the
input history, i.e., the line currently being entered.	Accept the current
line for execution as if a newline had been entered, and fetch the next line
relative to the current line from the history for editing.  A numeric
argument, if supplied, specifies the history entry to use instead of the
current line.  fetch-history With a numeric argument, fetch that entry from
the history list and make it the current line.	Without an argument, move back
to the first entry in the history list.	 Search backward starting at the
current line and moving “up” through the history as necessary.	This is an
incremental search.  This command sets the region to the matched text and
activates the region.  Search forward starting at the current line and moving
“down” through the history as necessary.  This is an incremental search.  This
command sets the region to the matched text and activates the region.  Search
backward through the history starting at the current line using a non-
incremental search for a string supplied by the user.  The search string may
match anywhere in a history line.  Search forward through the history using a
non-incremental search for a string supplied by the user.  The search string
may match anywhere in a history line.  Search backward through the history for
the string of characters between the start of the current line and the point.
The search string must match at the beginning of a history line.  This is a
non-incremental search.	 This may be bound to the Page Up key on some
keyboards.  Search forward through the history for the string of characters
between the start of the current line and the point.  The search string must
match at the beginning of a history line.  This is a non-incremental search.
This may be bound to the Page Down key on some keyboards.  Search backward
through the history for the string of characters between the start of the
current line and the point.  The search string may match anywhere in a history
line.  This is a non-incremental search.  Search forward through the history
for the string of characters between the start of the current line and the
point.	The search string may match anywhere in a history line.	 This is a
non-incremental search.	 Insert the first argument to the previous command
(usually the second word on the previous line) at point.  With an argument
insert the nth word from the previous command (the words in the previous
command begin with word 0).  A negative argument inserts the nth word from the
end of the previous command.  Once the argument n is computed, this uses the
history expansion facilities to extract the nth word, as if the “!n” history
expansion had been specified.  yank-last-arg (M-., M-_) Insert the last
argument to the previous command (the last word of the previous history
entry).	 With a numeric argument, behave exactly like yank-nth-arg.
Successive calls to yank-last-arg move back through the history list,
inserting the last word (or the word specified by the argument to the first
call) of each line in turn.  Any numeric argument supplied to these successive
calls determines the direction to move through the history.  A negative
argument switches the direction through the history (back or forward).	This
uses the history expansion facilities to extract the last word, as if the “!$”
history expansion had been specified.  Expand the line by performing shell
word expansions.  This performs alias and history expansion, $'string' and
$"string" quoting, tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion,
arithmetic expansion, command and process substitution, word splitting, and
quote removal.	An explicit argument suppresses command and process
substitution.  See below for a description of history expansion.  Perform
history expansion on the current line.	See below for a description of history
expansion.  Perform history expansion on the current line and insert a space.
See below for a description of history expansion.  Perform alias expansion on
the current line.  See above for a description of alias expansion.  Perform
history and alias expansion on the current line.  A synonym for yank-last-arg.
Invoke an editor on the current command line, and execute the result as shell
commands.  Bash attempts to invoke and emacs as the editor, in that order.
The character indicating end-of-file as set, for example, by If this character
is read when there are no characters on the line, and point is at the
beginning of the line, readline interprets it as the end of input and returns
Delete the character at point.	If this function is bound to the same
character as the tty EOF character, as C-d commonly is, see above for the
effects.  This may also be bound to the Delete key on some keyboards.  Delete
the character behind the cursor.  When given a numeric argument, save the
deleted text on the kill ring.	Delete the character under the cursor, unless
the cursor is at the end of the line, in which case the character behind the
cursor is deleted.  Add the next character typed to the line verbatim.	This
is how to insert characters like C-q, for example.  Insert a tab character.
Insert the character typed.  This function is intended to be bound to the
“bracketed paste” escape sequence sent by some terminals, and such a binding
is assigned by default.	 It allows readline to insert the pasted text as a
single unit without treating each character as if it had been read from the
keyboard.  The pasted characters are inserted as if each one was bound to
self-insert instead of executing any editing commands.	Bracketed paste sets
the region to the inserted text and activates the region.  Drag the character
before point forward over the character at point, moving point forward as
well.  If point is at the end of the line, then this transposes the two
characters before point.  Negative arguments have no effect.  Drag the word
before point past the word after point, moving point past that word as well.
If point is at the end of the line, this transposes the last two words on the
line.  Drag the word before point past the word after point, moving point past
that word as well.  If the insertion point is at the end of the line, this
transposes the last two words on the line.  Word boundaries are the same as
shell-forward-word and shell-backward-word.  Uppercase the current (or
following) word.  With a negative argument, uppercase the previous word, but
do not move point.  Lowercase the current (or following) word.	With a
negative argument, lowercase the previous word, but do not move point.
Capitalize the current (or following) word.  With a negative argument,
capitalize the previous word, but do not move point.  Toggle overwrite mode.
With an explicit positive numeric argument, switches to overwrite mode.	 With
an explicit non-positive numeric argument, switches to insert mode.  This
command affects only emacs mode; vi mode does overwrite differently.  Each
call to readline() starts in insert mode.  In overwrite mode, characters bound
to self-insert replace the text at point rather than pushing the text to the
right.	Characters bound to backward-delete-char replace the character before
point with a space.  By default, this command is unbound, but may be bound to
the Insert key on some keyboards.  Kill the text from point to the end of the
current line.  With a negative numeric argument, kill backward from the cursor
to the beginning of the line.  Kill backward to the beginning of the current
line.  With a negative numeric argument, kill forward from the cursor to the
end of the line.  Kill backward from point to the beginning of the line,
saving the killed text on the kill-ring.  Kill all characters on the current
line, no matter where point is.	 Kill from point to the end of the current
word, or if between words, to the end of the next word.	 Word boundaries are
the same as those used by forward-word.	 Kill the word behind point.  Word
boundaries are the same as those used by backward-word.	 Kill from point to
the end of the current word, or if between words, to the end of the next word.
Word boundaries are the same as those used by shell-forward-word.  Kill the
word behind point.  Word boundaries are the same as those used by
shell-backward-word.  Kill the word behind point, using white space as a word
boundary, saving the killed text on the kill-ring.  Kill the word behind
point, using white space and the slash character as the word boundaries,
saving the killed text on the kill-ring.  Delete all spaces and tabs around
point.	Kill the text in the current region.  Copy the text in the region to
the kill buffer, so it can be yanked immediately.  Copy the word before point
to the kill buffer.  The word boundaries are the same as backward-word.	 Copy
the word following point to the kill buffer.  The word boundaries are the same
as forward-word.  Yank the top of the kill ring into the buffer at point.
Rotate the kill ring, and yank the new top.  Only works following or Add this
digit to the argument already accumulating, or start a new argument.  M--
starts a negative argument.  This is another way to specify an argument.  If
this command is followed by one or more digits, optionally with a leading
minus sign, those digits define the argument.  If the command is followed by
digits, executing again ends the numeric argument, but is otherwise ignored.
As a special case, if this command is immediately followed by a character that
is neither a digit nor minus sign, the argument count for the next command is
multiplied by four.  The argument count is initially one, so executing this
function the first time makes the argument count four, a second time makes the
argument count sixteen, and so on.  Attempt to perform completion on the text
before point.  attempts completion by first checking for any programmable
completions for the command word (see Programmable Completion below),
otherwise treating the text as a variable (if the text begins with $),
username (if the text begins with ~), hostname (if the text begins with @), or
command (including aliases, functions, and builtins) in turn.  If none of
these produces a match, it falls back to filename completion.  List the
possible completions of the text before point.	When displaying completions,
readline sets the number of columns used for display to the value of
completion-display-width, the value of the shell variable or the screen width,
in that order.	Insert all completions of the text before point that would
have been generated by possible-completions, separated by a space.  Similar to
complete, but replaces the word to be completed with a single match from the
list of possible completions.  Repeatedly executing menu-complete steps
through the list of possible completions, inserting each match in turn.	 At
the end of the list of completions, menu-complete rings the bell (subject to
the setting of bell-style) and restores the original text.  An argument of n
moves n positions forward in the list of matches; a negative argument moves
backward through the list.  This command is intended to be bound to TAB, but
is unbound by default.	Identical to menu-complete, but moves backward through
the list of possible completions, as if menu-complete had been given a
negative argument.  This command is unbound by default.	 Perform completion on
the word before point as described above and write the list of possible
completions to readline's output stream using the following format, writing
information on separate lines: the number of matches N; the word being
completed; S:E, where S and E are the start and end offsets of the word in the
readline line buffer; then each match, one per line If there are no matches,
the first line will be “0”, and this command does not print any output after
the S:E.  If there is only a single match, this prints a single line
containing it.	If there is more than one match, this prints the common prefix
of the matches, which may be empty, on the first line after the S:E, then the
matches on subsequent lines.  In this case, N will include the first line with
the common prefix.  The user or application should be able to accommodate the
possibility of a blank line.  The intent is that the user or application reads
N lines after the line containing S:E to obtain the match list.	 This command
is unbound by default.	Deletes the character under the cursor if not at the
beginning or end of the line (like delete-char).  At the end of the line, it
behaves identically to possible-completions.  This command is unbound by
default.  Attempt filename completion on the text before point.	 List the
possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a filename.
Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a username.	 List
the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a username.
Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a shell variable.
List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a shell
variable.  Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a
hostname.  List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it
as a hostname.	Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a
command name.  Command completion attempts to match the text against aliases,
reserved words, shell functions, shell builtins, and finally executable
filenames, in that order.  List the possible completions of the text before
point, treating it as a command name.  Attempt completion on the text before
point, comparing the text against history list entries for possible completion
matches.  Attempt menu completion on the text before point, comparing the text
against lines from the history list for possible completion matches.  Perform
filename completion and insert the list of possible completions enclosed
within braces so the list is available to the shell (see above).  Begin saving
the characters typed into the current keyboard macro.  Stop saving the
characters typed into the current keyboard macro and store the definition.
Re-execute the last keyboard macro defined, by making the characters in the
macro appear as if typed at the keyboard.  Print the last keyboard macro
defined in a format suitable for the inputrc file.  Read in the contents of
the inputrc file, and incorporate any bindings or variable assignments found
there.	Abort the current editing command and ring the terminal's bell
(subject to the setting of If the metafied character x is uppercase, run the
command that is bound to the corresponding metafied lowercase character.  The
behavior is undefined if x is already lowercase.  Metafy the next character
typed.	is equivalent to Incremental undo, separately remembered for each
line.  Undo all changes made to this line.  This is like executing the command
enough times to return the line to its initial state.  Perform tilde expansion
on the current word.  Set the mark to the point.  If a numeric argument is
supplied, set the mark to that position.  Swap the point with the mark.	 Set
the current cursor position to the saved position, then set the mark to the
old cursor position.  Read a character and move point to the next occurrence
of that character.  A negative argument searches for previous occurrences.
Read a character and move point to the previous occurrence of that character.
A negative argument searches for subsequent occurrences.  Read enough
characters to consume a multi-key sequence such as those defined for keys like
Home and End.  CSI sequences begin with a Control Sequence Indicator (CSI),
usually If this sequence is bound to “\e[”, keys producing CSI sequences have
no effect unless explicitly bound to a readline command, instead of inserting
stray characters into the editing buffer.  This is unbound by default, but
usually bound to Without a numeric argument, insert the value of the readline
variable at the beginning of the current line.	If a numeric argument is
supplied, this command acts as a toggle: if the characters at the beginning of
the line do not match the value of comment-begin, insert the value; otherwise
delete the characters in comment-begin from the beginning of the line.	In
either case, the line is accepted as if a newline had been typed.  The default
value of comment-begin causes this command to make the current line a shell
comment.  If a numeric argument causes the comment character to be removed,
the line will be executed by the shell.	 Perform spelling correction on the
current word, treating it as a directory or filename, in the same way as the
cdspell shell option.  Word boundaries are the same as those used by
shell-forward-word.  Treat the word before point as a pattern for pathname
expansion, with an asterisk implicitly appended, then use the pattern to
generate a list of matching file names for possible completions.  Treat the
word before point as a pattern for pathname expansion, and insert the list of
matching file names, replacing the word.  If a numeric argument is supplied,
append a * before pathname expansion.  Display the list of expansions that
would have been generated by and redisplay the line.  If a numeric argument is
supplied, append a * before pathname expansion.	 Print all of the functions
and their key bindings to the readline output stream.  If a numeric argument
is supplied, the output is formatted in such a way that it can be made part of
an inputrc file.  Print all of the settable readline variables and their
values to the readline output stream.  If a numeric argument is supplied, the
output is formatted in such a way that it can be made part of an inputrc file.
Print all of the readline key sequences bound to macros and the strings they
output to the readline output stream.  If a numeric argument is supplied, the
output is formatted in such a way that it can be made part of an inputrc file.
Read a bindable readline command name from the input and execute the function
to which it's bound, as if the key sequence to which it was bound appeared in
the input.  If this function is supplied with a numeric argument, it passes
that argument to the function it executes.  Display version information about
the current instance of When a user attempts word completion for a command or
an argument to a command for which a completion specification (a compspec) has
been defined using the complete builtin (see below), readline invokes the
programmable completion facilities.  First, bash identifies the command name.
If a compspec has been defined for that command, the compspec is used to
generate the list of possible completions for the word.	 If the command word
is the empty string (completion attempted at the beginning of an empty line),
bash uses any compspec defined with the -E option to complete.	The -I option
to complete indicates that the command word is the first non-assignment word
on the line, or after a command delimiter such as ; or |.  This usually
indicates command name completion.  If the command word is a full pathname,
bash searches for a compspec for the full pathname first.  If there is no
compspec for the full pathname, bash attempts to find a compspec for the
portion following the final slash.  If those searches do not result in a
compspec, or if there is no compspec for the command word, bash uses any
compspec defined with the -D option to complete as the default.	 If there is
no default compspec, bash performs alias expansion on the command word as a
final resort, and attempts to find a compspec for the command word resulting
from any successful expansion.	If a compspec is not found, bash performs its
default completion as described above under Completing.	 Otherwise, once a
compspec has been found, bash uses it to generate the list of matching words.
First, bash performs the actions specified by the compspec.  This only returns
matches which are prefixes of the word being completed.	 When the or option is
used for filename or directory name completion, bash uses the shell variable
to filter the matches.	Next, programmable completion generates matches
specified by a pathname expansion pattern supplied as an argument to the -G
option.	 The words generated by the pattern need not match the word being
completed.  Bash uses the variable to filter the matches, but does not use the
shell variable.	 Next, completion considers the string specified as the
argument to the -W option.  The string is first split using the characters in
the special variable as delimiters.  This honors shell quoting within the
string, in order to provide a mechanism for the words to contain shell
metacharacters or characters in the value of Each word is then expanded using
brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command
substitution, and arithmetic expansion, as described above under The results
are split using the rules described above under Word Splitting.	 The results
of the expansion are prefix-matched against the word being completed, and the
matching words become possible completions.  After these matches have been
generated, bash executes any shell function or command specified with the -F
and -C options.	 When the command or function is invoked, bash assigns values
to the and variables as described above under Shell Variables.	If a shell
function is being invoked, bash also sets the and variables.  When the
function or command is invoked, the first argument ($1) is the name of the
command whose arguments are being completed, the second argument ($2) is the
word being completed, and the third argument ($3) is the word preceding the
word being completed on the current command line.  There is no filtering of
the generated completions against the word being completed; the function or
command has complete freedom in generating the matches and they do not need to
match a prefix of the word.  Any function specified with -F is invoked first.
The function may use any of the shell facilities, including the compgen and
compopt builtins described below, to generate the matches.  It must put the
possible completions in the array variable, one per array element.  Next, any
command specified with the -C option is invoked in an environment equivalent
to command substitution.  It should print a list of completions, one per line,
to the standard output.	 Backslash will escape a newline, if necessary.	 These
are added to the set of possible completions.  After generating all of the
possible completions, bash applies any filter specified with the -X option to
the completions in the list.  The filter is a pattern as used for pathname
expansion; a & in the pattern is replaced with the text of the word being
completed.  A literal & may be escaped with a backslash; the backslash is
removed before attempting a match.  Any completion that matches the pattern is
removed from the list.	A leading ! negates the pattern; in this case bash
removes any completion that does not match the pattern.	 If the shell option
is enabled, bash performs the match without regard to the case of alphabetic
characters.  Finally, programmable completion adds any prefix and suffix
specified with the -P and -S options, respectively, to each completion, and
returns the result to readline as the list of possible completions.  If the
previously-applied actions do not generate any matches, and the -o dirnames
option was supplied to complete when the compspec was defined, bash attempts
directory name completion.  If the -o plusdirs option was supplied to complete
when the compspec was defined, bash attempts directory name completion and
adds any matches to the set of possible completions.  By default, if a
compspec is found, whatever it generates is returned to the completion code as
the full set of possible completions.  The default bash completions and the
readline default of filename completion are disabled.  If the -o bashdefault
option was supplied to complete when the compspec was defined, and the
compspec generates no matches, bash attempts its default completions.  If the
compspec and, if attempted, the default bash completions generate no matches,
and the -o default option was supplied to complete when the compspec was
defined, programmable completion performs readline's default completion.  The
options supplied to complete and compopt can control how readline treats the
completions.  For instance, the -o fullquote option tells readline to quote
the matches as if they were filenames.	See the description of complete below
for details.  When a compspec indicates that it wants directory name
completion, the programmable completion functions force readline to append a
slash to completed names which are symbolic links to directories, subject to
the value of the mark-directories readline variable, regardless of the setting
of the mark-symlinked-directories readline variable.  There is some support
for dynamically modifying completions.	This is most useful when used in
combination with a default completion specified with complete -D.  It's
possible for shell functions executed as completion functions to indicate that
completion should be retried by returning an exit status of 124.  If a shell
function returns 124, and changes the compspec associated with the command on
which completion is being attempted (supplied as the first argument when the
function is executed), programmable completion restarts from the beginning,
with an attempt to find a new compspec for that command.  This can be used to
build a set of completions dynamically as completion is attempted, rather than
loading them all at once.  For instance, assuming that there is a library of
compspecs, each kept in a file corresponding to the name of the command, the
following default completion function would load completions dynamically:
_completion_loader()
{
  . "/etc/bash_completion.d/$1.sh" \
    >/dev/null 2>&1 && return 124
}
complete -D -F _completion_loader \
    -o bashdefault -o default
When the option to the builtin is enabled, the shell provides access to the
command history, the list of commands previously typed.	 The value of the
variable is used as the number of commands to save in a history list: the
shell saves the text of the last commands (default 500).  The shell stores
each command in the history list prior to parameter and variable expansion
(see above) but after history expansion is performed, subject to the values of
the shell variables and On startup, bash initializes the history list by
reading history entries from the file named by the variable (default
~/.bash_history).  That file is referred to as the history file.  The history
file is truncated, if necessary, to contain no more than the number of history
entries specified by the value of the variable.	 If is unset, or set to null,
a non-numeric value, or a numeric value less than zero, the history file is
not truncated.	When the history file is read, lines beginning with the
history comment character followed immediately by a digit are interpreted as
timestamps for the following history line.  These timestamps are optionally
displayed depending on the value of the variable.  When present, history
timestamps delimit history entries, making multi-line entries possible.	 When
a shell with history enabled exits, bash copies the last entries from the
history list to If the shell option is enabled (see the description of under
below), bash appends the entries to the history file, otherwise it overwrites
the history file.  If is unset or null, or if the history file is unwritable,
the history is not saved.  After saving the history, bash truncates the
history file to contain no more than lines as described above.	If the
variable is set, the shell writes the timestamp information associated with
each history entry to the history file, marked with the history comment
character, so timestamps are preserved across shell sessions.  This uses the
history comment character to distinguish timestamps from other history lines.
As above, when using the timestamps delimit multi-line history entries.	 The
builtin command (see below) will list or edit and re-execute a portion of the
history list.  The builtin can display or modify the history list and
manipulate the history file.  When using command-line editing, search commands
are available in each editing mode that provide access to the history list.
The shell allows control over which commands are saved on the history list.
The and variables are used to save only a subset of the commands entered.  If
the shell option is enabled, the shell attempts to save each line of a multi-
line command in the same history entry, adding semicolons where necessary to
preserve syntactic correctness.	 The shell option modifies cmdhist by saving
the command with embedded newlines instead of semicolons.  See the description
of the builtin below under for information on setting and unsetting shell
options.  The shell supports a history expansion feature that is similar to
the history expansion in This section describes what syntax features are
available.  History expansion is enabled by default for interactive shells,
and can be disabled using the option to the builtin command (see below).  Non-
interactive shells do not perform history expansion by default, but it can be
enabled with “set -H”.	History expansions introduce words from the history
list into the input stream, making it easy to repeat commands, insert the
arguments to a previous command into the current input line, or fix errors in
previous commands quickly.  History expansion is performed immediately after a
complete line is read, before the shell breaks it into words, and is performed
on each line individually.  The shell attempts to inform the history expansion
functions about quoting still in effect from previous lines.  It takes place
in two parts.  The first is to determine which history list entry to use
during substitution.  The second is to select portions of that entry to
include into the current one.  The entry selected from the history is the
event, and the portions of that entry that are acted upon are words.  Various
modifiers are available to manipulate the selected words.  The entry is split
into words in the same fashion as when reading input, so that several
metacharacter-separated words surrounded by quotes are considered one word.
The event designator selects the event, the optional word designator selects
words from the event, and various optional modifiers are available to
manipulate the selected words.	History expansions are introduced by the
appearance of the history expansion character, which is ! by default.  History
expansions may appear anywhere in the input, but do not nest.  Only backslash
(\) and single quotes can quote the history expansion character, but the
history expansion character is also treated as quoted if it immediately
precedes the closing double quote in a double-quoted string.  Several
characters inhibit history expansion if found immediately following the
history expansion character, even if it is unquoted: space, tab, newline,
carriage return, =, and the other shell metacharacters defined above.  There
is a special abbreviation for substitution, active when the quick substitution
character (described above under is the first character on the line.  It
selects the previous history list entry, using an event designator equivalent
to !!, and substitutes one string for another in that entry.  It is described
below under Event Designators.	This is the only history expansion that does
not begin with the history expansion character.	 Several shell options
settable with the builtin will modify history expansion behavior (see the
description of the builtin below).and If the shell option is enabled, and is
being used, history substitutions are not immediately passed to the shell
parser.	 Instead, the expanded line is reloaded into the editing buffer for
further modification.  If is being used, and the shell option is enabled, a
failed history substitution is reloaded into the editing buffer for
correction.  The option to the builtin command shows what a history expansion
will do before using it.  The option to the builtin will add commands to the
end of the history list without actually executing them, so that they are
available for subsequent recall.  The shell allows control of the various
characters used by the history expansion mechanism (see the description of
above under The shell uses the history comment character to mark history
timestamps when writing the history file.  An event designator is a reference
to an entry in the history list.  The event designator consists of the portion
of the word beginning with the history expansion character and ending with the
word designator if present, or the end of the word.  Unless the reference is
absolute, events are relative to the current position in the history list.
Start a history substitution, except when followed by a newline, carriage
return, =, or, when the extglob shell option is enabled using the shopt
builtin, (.  Refer to history list entry Refer to the current entry minus
Refer to the previous entry.  This is a synonym for “!-1”.  Refer to the most
recent command preceding the current position in the history list starting
with Refer to the most recent command preceding the current position in the
history list containing The trailing ? may be omitted if is followed
immediately by a newline.  If string is missing, this uses the string from the
most recent search; it is an error if there is no previous search string.
Quick substitution.  Repeat the previous command, replacing with Equivalent to
“!!:s^string1^string2^” (see Modifiers below).	The entire command line typed
so far.	 Word designators are used to select desired words from the event.
They are optional; if the word designator isn't supplied, the history
expansion uses the entire event.  A separates the event specification from the
word designator.  It may be omitted if the word designator begins with a or
Words are numbered from the beginning of the line, with the first word being
denoted by 0 (zero).  Words are inserted into the current line separated by
single spaces.	The zeroth word.  For the shell, this is the command word.
The nth word.  The first argument: word 1.  The last word.  This is usually
the last argument, but will expand to the zeroth word if there is only one
word in the line.  The first word matched by the most recent “?string?”
search, if the search string begins with a character that is part of a word.
By default, searches begin at the end of each line and proceed to the
beginning, so the first word matched is the one closest to the end of the
line.  A range of words; “-y” abbreviates “0-y”.  All of the words but the
zeroth.	 This is a synonym for “1-$”.  It is not an error to use if there is
just one word in the event; it expands to the empty string in that case.
Abbreviates x-$.  Abbreviates x-$ like x*, but omits the last word.  If x is
missing, it defaults to 0.  If a word designator is supplied without an event
specification, the previous command is used as the event, equivalent to !!.
After the optional word designator, the expansion may include a sequence of
one or more of the following modifiers, each preceded by a “:”.	 These modify,
or edit, the word or words selected from the history event.  Remove a trailing
pathname component, leaving only the head.  Remove all leading pathname
components, leaving the tail.  Remove a trailing suffix of the form .xxx,
leaving the basename.  Remove all but the trailing suffix.  Print the new
command but do not execute it.	Quote the substituted words, escaping further
substitutions.	Quote the substituted words as with but break into words at
and newlines.  The q and x modifiers are mutually exclusive; expansion uses
the last one supplied.	Substitute for the first occurrence of in the event
line.  Any character may be used as the delimiter in place of /.  The final
delimiter is optional if it is the last character of the event line.  A single
backslash quotes the delimiter in and If & appears in it is replaced with A
single backslash quotes the &.	If is null, it is set to the last substituted,
or, if no previous history substitutions took place, the last in a search.  If
is null, each matching is deleted.  Repeat the previous substitution.  Cause
changes to be applied over the entire event line.  This is used in conjunction
with “:s” (e.g., “:gs/old/new/”) or “:&”.  If used with “:s”, any delimiter
can be used in place of /, and the final delimiter is optional if it is the
last character of the event line.  An a may be used as a synonym for g.	 Apply
the following “s” or “&” modifier once to each word in the event line.	Unless
otherwise noted, each builtin command documented in this section as accepting
options preceded by accepts to signify the end of the options.	The :, true,
false, and test/[ builtins do not accept options and do not treat --
specially.  The exit, logout, return, break, continue, let, and shift builtins
accept and process arguments beginning with - without requiring --.  Other
builtins that accept arguments but are not specified as accepting options
interpret arguments beginning with - as invalid options and require -- to
prevent this interpretation.  : [arguments] No effect; the command does
nothing beyond expanding and performing any specified redirections.  The
return status is zero.	. [-p path] filename [arguments] source [-p path]
filename [arguments] The . command (source) reads and execute commands from in
the current shell environment and returns the exit status of the last command
executed from If filename does not contain a slash, . searches for it.	If the
-p option is supplied, . treats path as a colon-separated list of directories
in which to find filename; otherwise, . uses the entries in to find the
directory containing filename does not need to be executable.  When bash is
not in posix mode, it searches the current directory if filename is not found
in but does not search the current directory if -p is supplied.	 If the option
to the builtin command is turned off, . does not search If any arguments are
supplied, they become the positional parameters when filename is executed.
Otherwise the positional parameters are unchanged.  If the -T option is
enabled, . inherits any trap on DEBUG; if it is not, any DEBUG trap string is
saved and restored around the call to ., and . unsets the DEBUG trap while it
executes.  If -T is not set, and the sourced file changes the DEBUG trap, the
new value persists after . completes.  The return status is the status of the
last command executed from filename (0 if no commands are executed), and non-
zero if is not found or cannot be read.	 alias [-p] [name[=value] ...] With no
arguments or with the option, alias prints the list of aliases in the form
alias name=value on standard output.  When arguments are supplied, define an
alias for each name whose value is given.  A trailing space in value causes
the next word to be checked for alias substitution when the alias is expanded
during command parsing.	 For each name in the argument list for which no value
is supplied, print the name and value of the alias name.  alias returns true
unless a name is given (without a corresponding =value) for which no alias has
been defined.  bg [jobspec ...] Resume each suspended job jobspec in the
background, as if it had been started with If is not present, the shell uses
its notion of the current job.	returns 0 unless run when job control is
disabled or, when run with job control enabled, any specified jobspec was not
found or was started without job control.  bind [-m keymap] [-lsvSVX] bind [-m
keymap] [-q function] [-u function] [-r keyseq] bind [-m keymap] -f filename
bind [-m keymap] -x keyseq[:] shell-command bind [-m keymap]
keyseq:function-name bind [-m keymap] -p|-P [readline-command] bind [-m
keymap] keyseq:readline-command bind readline-command-line Display current key
and function bindings, bind a key sequence to a function or macro or to a
shell command, or set a variable.  Each non-option argument is a key binding
or command as it would appear in a initialization file such as but each
binding or command must be passed as a separate argument; e.g., '"\C-x\C-r":
re-read-init-file'.  In the following descriptions, output available to be re-
read is formatted as commands that would appear in a initialization file or
that would be supplied as individual arguments to a command.  Options, if
supplied, have the following meanings: Use as the keymap to be affected by the
subsequent bindings.  Acceptable names are emacs, emacs-standard, emacs-meta,
emacs-ctlx, vi, vi-move, vi-command, and vi is equivalent to vi-command
(vi-move is also a synonym); emacs is equivalent to emacs-standard.  List the
names of all readline functions.  Display readline function names and bindings
in such a way that they can be used as an argument to a subsequent bind
command or in a readline initialization file.  If arguments remain after
option processing, bind treats them as readline command names and restricts
output to those names.	List current readline function names and bindings.  If
arguments remain after option processing, bind treats them as readline command
names and restricts output to those names.  Display readline key sequences
bound to macros and the strings they output in such a way that they can be
used as an argument to a subsequent bind command or in a readline
initialization file.  Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the
strings they output.  Display readline variable names and values in such a way
that they can be used as an argument to a subsequent bind command or in a
readline initialization file.  List current readline variable names and
values.	 Read key bindings from filename.  Display key sequences that invoke
the named readline function.  Unbind all key sequences bound to the named
readline function.  Remove any current binding for keyseq.  Cause
shell-command to be executed whenever keyseq is entered.  The separator
between keyseq and shell-command is either whitespace or a colon optionally
followed by whitespace.	 If the separator is whitespace, shell-command must be
enclosed in double quotes and readline expands any of its special backslash-
escapes in shell-command before saving it.  If the separator is a colon, any
enclosing double quotes are optional, and readline does not expand the command
string before saving it.  Since the entire key binding expression must be a
single argument, it should be enclosed in single quotes.  When shell-command
is executed, the shell sets the variable to the contents of the readline line
buffer and the and variables to the current location of the insertion point
and the saved insertion point (the mark), respectively.	 The shell assigns any
numeric argument the user supplied to the variable.  If there was no argument,
that variable is not set.  If the executed command changes the value of any of
or those new values will be reflected in the editing state.  List all key
sequences bound to shell commands and the associated commands in a format that
can be reused as an argument to a subsequent bind command.  The return value
is 0 unless an unrecognized option is supplied or an error occurred.  break
[n] Exit from within a or loop.	 If n is specified, break exits n enclosing
loops.	must be ≥ 1.  If is greater than the number of enclosing loops, all
enclosing loops are exited.  The return value is 0 unless n is not greater
than or equal to 1.  builtin shell-builtin [arguments] Execute the specified
shell builtin shell-builtin, passing it and return its exit status.  This is
useful when defining a function whose name is the same as a shell builtin,
retaining the functionality of the builtin within the function.	 The cd
builtin is commonly redefined this way.	 The return status is false if is not
a shell builtin command.  caller [expr] Returns the context of any active
subroutine call (a shell function or a script executed with the . or source
builtins).  Without expr, caller displays the line number and source filename
of the current subroutine call.	 If a non-negative integer is supplied as
expr, caller displays the line number, subroutine name, and source file
corresponding to that position in the current execution call stack.  This
extra information may be used, for example, to print a stack trace.  The
current frame is frame 0.  The return value is 0 unless the shell is not
executing a subroutine call or expr does not correspond to a valid position in
the call stack.	 cd [-L] [-@] [dir] cd -P [-e] [-@] [dir] Change the current
directory to dir.  if dir is not supplied, the value of the shell variable is
used as dir.  The variable exists, and dir does not begin with a slash (/), cd
uses it as a search path: the shell searches each directory name in for dir.
Alternative directory names in are separated by a colon (:).  A null directory
name in is the same as the current directory, i.e., “.”.  The option causes cd
to use the physical directory structure by resolving symbolic links while
traversing dir and before processing instances of .. in dir (see also the
option to the builtin command).	 The option forces cd to follow symbolic links
by resolving the link after processing instances of .. in dir.	If .. appears
in dir, cd processes it by removing the immediately previous pathname
component from dir, back to a slash or the beginning of dir, and verifying
that the portion of dir it has processed to that point is still a valid
directory name after removing the pathname component.  If it is not a valid
directory name, cd returns a non-zero status.  If neither nor is supplied,
behaves as if had been supplied.  If the option is supplied with and cd cannot
successfully determine the current working directory after a successful
directory change, it returns a non-zero status.	 On systems that support it,
the -@ option presents the extended attributes associated with a file as a
directory.  An argument of is converted to before attempting the directory
change.	 If cd uses a non-empty directory name from or if - is the first
argument, and the directory change is successful, cd writes the absolute
pathname of the new working directory to the standard output.  If the
directory change is successful, cd sets the value of the PWD environment
variable to the new directory name, and sets the OLDPWD environment variable
to the value of the current working directory before the change.  The return
value is true if the directory was successfully changed; false otherwise.
command [-pVv] command [arg ...] The command builtin runs with suppressing the
normal shell function lookup for command.  Only builtin commands or commands
found in the named command are executed.  If the option is supplied, the
search for is performed using a default value for that is guaranteed to find
all of the standard utilities.	If either the or option is supplied, command
prints a description of The option displays a single word indicating the
command or filename used to invoke the option produces a more verbose
description.  If the or option is supplied, the exit status is zero if was
found, and non-zero if not.  If neither option is supplied and an error
occurred or cannot be found, the exit status is 127.  Otherwise, the exit
status of the builtin is the exit status of compgen [-V varname] [option]
[word] Generate possible completion matches for word according to the options,
which may be any option accepted by the builtin with the exceptions of and and
write the matches to the standard output.  If the -V option is supplied,
compgen stores the generated completions into the indexed array variable
varname instead of writing them to the standard output.	 When using the -F or
-C options, the various shell variables set by the programmable completion
facilities, while available, will not have useful values.  The matches will be
generated in the same way as if the programmable completion code had generated
them directly from a completion specification with the same flags.  If word is
specified, only those completions matching word will be displayed or stored.
The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, or no matches
were generated.	 complete [-abcdefgjksuv] [-o comp-option] [-DEI] [-A action]
[-G globpat] [-W wordlist] [-F function] [-C command]
[-X filterpat] [-P prefix] [-S suffix] name [name ...] complete -pr [-DEI]
[name ...] Specify how arguments to each name should be completed.  If the -p
option is supplied, or if no options or names are supplied, print existing
completion specifications in a way that allows them to be reused as input.
The -r option removes a completion specification for each name, or, if no
names are supplied, all completion specifications.  The -D option indicates
that other supplied options and actions should apply to the “default” command
completion; that is, completion attempted on a command for which no completion
has previously been defined.  The -E option indicates that other supplied
options and actions should apply to “empty” command completion; that is,
completion attempted on a blank line.  The -I option indicates that other
supplied options and actions should apply to completion on the initial non-
assignment word on the line, or after a command delimiter such as ; or |,
which is usually command name completion.  If multiple options are supplied,
the -D option takes precedence over -E, and both take precedence over -I.  If
any of -D, -E, or -I are supplied, any other name arguments are ignored; these
completions only apply to the case specified by the option.  The process of
applying these completion specifications when attempting word completion  is
described above under Programmable Completion.	Other options, if specified,
have the following meanings.  The arguments to the -G, -W, and -X options
(and, if necessary, the -P and -S options) should be quoted to protect them
from expansion before the builtin is invoked.  -o comp-option The comp-option
controls several aspects of the compspec's behavior beyond the simple
generation of completions.  comp-option may be one of: Perform the rest of the
default bash completions if the compspec generates no matches.	Use readline's
default filename completion if the compspec generates no matches.  Perform
directory name completion if the compspec generates no matches.	 Tell readline
that the compspec generates filenames, so it can perform any filename-specific
processing (such as adding a slash to directory names, quoting special
characters, or suppressing trailing spaces).  This is intended to be used with
shell functions.  Tell readline to quote all the completed words even if they
are not filenames.  Tell readline not to quote the completed words if they are
filenames (quoting filenames is the default).  Tell readline not to sort the
list of possible completions alphabetically.  Tell readline not to append a
space (the default) to words completed at the end of the line.	After
generating any matches defined by the compspec, attempt directory name
completion and add any matches to the results of the other actions.  -A action
The action may be one of the following to generate a list of possible
completions: Alias names.  May also be specified as -a.	 Array variable names.
Readline key binding names.  Names of shell builtin commands.  May also be
specified as -b.  Command names.  May also be specified as -c.	Directory
names.	May also be specified as -d.  Names of disabled shell builtins.	 Names
of enabled shell builtins.  Names of exported shell variables.	May also be
specified as -e.  File and directory names, similar to readline's filename
completion.  May also be specified as -f.  Names of shell functions.  Group
names.	May also be specified as -g.  Help topics as accepted by the help
builtin.  Hostnames, as taken from the file specified by the shell variable.
Job names, if job control is active.  May also be specified as -j.  Shell
reserved words.	 May also be specified as -k.  Names of running jobs, if job
control is active.  Service names.  May also be specified as -s.  Valid
arguments for the -o option to the set builtin.	 Shell option names as
accepted by the shopt builtin.	Signal names.  Names of stopped jobs, if job
control is active.  User names.	 May also be specified as -u.  Names of all
shell variables.  May also be specified as -v.	-C command command is executed
in a subshell environment, and its output is used as the possible completions.
Arguments are passed as with the -F option.  -F function The shell function
function is executed in the current shell environment.	When the function is
executed, the first argument ($1) is the name of the command whose arguments
are being completed, the second argument ($2) is the word being completed, and
the third argument ($3) is the word preceding the word being completed on the
current command line.  When function finishes, programmable completion
retrieves the possible completions from the value of the array variable.  -G
globpat Expand the pathname expansion pattern globpat to generate the possible
completions.  -P prefix Add prefix to the beginning of each possible
completion after all other options have been applied.  -S suffix Append suffix
to each possible completion after all other options have been applied.	-W
wordlist Split the wordlist using the characters in the special variable as
delimiters, and expand each resulting word.  Shell quoting is honored within
wordlist, in order to provide a mechanism for the words to contain shell
metacharacters or characters in the value of The possible completions are the
members of the resultant list which match a prefix of the word being
completed.  -X filterpat filterpat is a pattern as used for pathname
expansion.  It is applied to the list of possible completions generated by the
preceding options and arguments, and each completion matching filterpat is
removed from the list.	A leading ! in filterpat negates the pattern; in this
case, any completion not matching filterpat is removed.	 The return value is
true unless an invalid option is supplied, an option other than or is supplied
without a name argument, an attempt is made to remove a completion
specification for a name for which no specification exists, or an error occurs
adding a completion specification.  compopt [-o option] [-DEI] [+o option]
[name] Modify completion options for each name according to the options, or
for the currently-executing completion if no names are supplied.  If no
options are supplied, display the completion options for each name or the
current completion.  The possible values of option are those valid for the
complete builtin described above.  The -D option indicates that other supplied
options should apply to the “default” command completion; the -E option
indicates that other supplied options should apply to “empty” command
completion; and the -I option indicates that other supplied options should
apply to completion on the initial word on the line.  These are determined in
the same way as the complete builtin.  If multiple options are supplied, the
-D option takes precedence over -E, and both take precedence over -I.  The
return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, an attempt is made
to modify the options for a name for which no completion specification exists,
or an output error occurs.  continue [n] continue resumes the next iteration
of the enclosing or loop.  If is specified, bash resumes the nth enclosing
loop.  must be ≥ 1.  If is greater than the number of enclosing loops, the
shell resumes the last enclosing loop (the “top-level” loop).  The return
value is 0 unless n is not greater than or equal to 1.	declare
[-aAfFgiIlnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...] typeset [-aAfFgiIlnrtux] [-p]
[name[=value] ...] Declare variables and/or give them attributes.  If no names
are given then display the values of variables or functions.  The option will
display the attributes and values of each When is used with name arguments,
additional options, other than -f and -F, are ignored.	When is supplied
without name arguments, declare will display the attributes and values of all
variables having the attributes specified by the additional options.  If no
other options are supplied with -p, declare will display the attributes and
values of all shell variables.	The -f option restricts the display to shell
functions.  The option inhibits the display of function definitions; only the
function name and attributes are printed.  If the extdebug shell option is
enabled using shopt, the source file name and line number where each name is
defined are displayed as well.	The option implies The option forces variables
to be created or modified at the global scope, even when declare is executed
in a shell function.  It is ignored when declare is not executed in a shell
function.  The option causes local variables to inherit the attributes (except
the nameref attribute) and value of any existing variable with the same name
at a surrounding scope.	 If there is no existing variable, the local variable
is initially unset.  The following options can be used to restrict output to
variables with the specified attribute or to give variables attributes: Each
name is an indexed array variable (see above).	Each name is an associative
array variable (see above).  Each name refers to a shell function.  The
variable is treated as an integer; arithmetic evaluation (see above) is
performed when the variable is assigned a value.  When the variable is
assigned a value, all upper-case characters are converted to lower-case.  The
upper-case attribute is disabled.  Give each name the nameref attribute,
making it a name reference to another variable.	 That other variable is
defined by the value of name.  All references, assignments, and attribute
modifications to name, except those using or changing the -n attribute itself,
are performed on the variable referenced by name's value.  The nameref
attribute cannot be applied to array variables.	 Make names readonly.  These
names cannot then be assigned values by subsequent assignment statements or
unset.	Give each name the trace attribute.  Traced functions inherit the
DEBUG and RETURN traps from the calling shell.	The trace attribute has no
special meaning for variables.	When the variable is assigned a value, all
lower-case characters are converted to upper-case.  The lower-case attribute
is disabled.  Mark each name for export to subsequent commands via the
environment.  Using “+” instead of “-” turns off the specified attribute
instead, with the exceptions that +a and +A may not be used to destroy array
variables and +r will not remove the readonly attribute.  When used in a
function, and make each name local, as with the command, unless the -g option
is supplied.  If a variable name is followed by =value, the value of the
variable is set to value.  When using -a or -A and the compound assignment
syntax to create array variables, additional attributes do not take effect
until subsequent assignments.  The return value is 0 unless an invalid option
is encountered, an attempt is made to define a function using “-f foo=bar”, an
attempt is made to assign a value to a readonly variable, an attempt is made
to assign a value to an array variable without using the compound assignment
syntax (see above), one of the names is not a valid shell variable name, an
attempt is made to turn off readonly status for a readonly variable, an
attempt is made to turn off array status for an array variable, or an attempt
is made to display a non-existent function with -f.  Without options, display
the list of currently remembered directories.  The default display is on a
single line with directory names separated by spaces.  Directories are added
to the list with the command; the command removes entries from the list.  The
current directory is always the first directory in the stack.  Options, if
supplied, have the following meanings: Clears the directory stack by deleting
all of the entries.  Produces a listing using full pathnames; the default
listing format uses a tilde to denote the home directory.  Print the directory
stack with one entry per line.	Print the directory stack with one entry per
line, prefixing each entry with its index in the stack.	 +n Displays the nth
entry counting from the left of the list shown by when invoked without
options, starting with zero.  -n Displays the nth entry counting from the
right of the list shown by when invoked without options, starting with zero.
The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is supplied or n indexes beyond
the end of the directory stack.	 disown [-ar] [-h] [id ...] Without options,
remove each from the table of active jobs.  Each id may be a job specification
jobspec or a process ID pid; if id is a pid, disown uses the job containing
pid as jobspec.	 If the -h option is supplied, disown does not remove the jobs
corresponding to each from the jobs table, but rather marks them so the shell
does not send to the job if the shell receives a If no is supplied, the option
means to remove or mark all jobs; the option without an argument removes or
marks running jobs.  If no is supplied, and neither the -a nor the -r option
is supplied, disown removes or marks the current job.  The return value is 0
unless an does not specify a valid job.	 echo [-neE] [arg ...] Output the
args, separated by spaces, followed by a newline.  The return status is 0
unless a write error occurs.  If -n is specified, the trailing newline is not
printed.  If the -e option is given, echo interprets the following backslash-
escaped characters.  The option disables interpretation of these escape
characters, even on systems where they are interpreted by default.  The
xpg_echo shell option determines whether or not echo interprets any options
and expands these escape characters.  does not interpret -- to mean the end of
options.  interprets the following escape sequences: alert (bell) backspace
suppress further output an escape character form feed new line carriage return
horizontal tab vertical tab backslash The eight-bit character whose value is
the octal value nnn (zero to three octal digits).  The eight-bit character
whose value is the hexadecimal value HH (one or two hex digits).  The Unicode
(ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHH (one to
four hex digits).  The Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the
hexadecimal value HHHHHHHH (one to eight hex digits).  echo writes any
unrecognized backslash-escaped characters unchanged.  enable [-a] [-dnps] [-f
filename] [name ...] Enable and disable builtin shell commands.	 Disabling a
builtin allows an executable file which has the same name as a shell builtin
to be executed without specifying a full pathname, even though the shell
normally searches for builtins before files.  If -n is supplied, each name is
disabled; otherwise, names are enabled.	 For example, to use the binary found
using instead of the shell builtin version, run “enable -n test”.  If no name
arguments are supplied, or if the option is supplied, print a list of shell
builtins.  With no other option arguments, the list consists of all enabled
shell builtins.	 If -n is supplied, print only disabled builtins.  If -a is
supplied, the list printed includes all builtins, with an indication of
whether or not each is enabled.	 The -s option means to restrict the output to
the special builtins.  The option means to load the new builtin command from
shared object on systems that support dynamic loading.	If filename does not
contain a slash, Bash will use the value of the BASH_LOADABLES_PATH variable
as a colon-separated list of directories in which to search for filename.  The
default for BASH_LOADABLES_PATH is system-dependent, and may include “.” to
force a search of the current directory.  The option will delete a builtin
previously loaded with -f.  If -s is used with -f, the new builtin becomes a
special builtin.  If no options are supplied and a name is not a shell
builtin, enable will attempt to load name from a shared object named name, as
if the command were “enable -f name name”.  The return value is 0 unless a is
not a shell builtin or there is an error loading a new builtin from a shared
object.	 eval [arg ...] Concatenate the args together into a single command,
separating them with spaces.  Bash then reads and execute this command, and
returns its exit status as the return status of eval.  If there are no or only
null arguments, returns 0.  exec [-cl] [-a name] [command [arguments]] If is
specified, it replaces the shell without creating a new process.  command
cannot be a shell builtin or function.	The become the arguments to command.
If the option is supplied, the shell places a dash at the beginning of the
zeroth argument passed to This is what does.  The option causes to be executed
with an empty environment.  If is supplied, the shell passes as the zeroth
argument to the executed command.  If cannot be executed for some reason, a
non-interactive shell exits, unless the shell option is enabled.  In that
case, it returns a non-zero status.  An interactive shell returns a non-zero
status if the file cannot be executed.	A subshell exits unconditionally if
exec fails.  If is not specified, any redirections take effect in the current
shell, and the return status is 0.  If there is a redirection error, the
return status is 1.  exit [n] Cause the shell to exit with a status of n.  If
is omitted, the exit status is that of the last command executed.  Any trap on
is executed before the shell terminates.  export [-fn] [name[=value]] ...  The
supplied are marked for automatic export to the environment of subsequently
executed commands.  If the option is given, the refer to functions.  The
option unexports, or removes the export attribute, from each name.  If no are
given, or if only the option is supplied, export displays a list of names of
all exported variables on the standard output.	Using -p and -f together
displays exported functions.  The -p option displays output in a form that may
be reused as input.  export allows the value of a variable to be set when it
is exported or unexported by following the variable name with =value.  This
sets the value of the variable to value while modifying the export attribute.
returns an exit status of 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, one of
the names is not a valid shell variable name, or is supplied with a that is
not a function.	 false Does nothing; returns a non-zero status.	 fc [-e ename]
[-lnr] [first] [last] fc -s [pat=rep] [cmd] The first form selects a range of
commands from to from the history list and displays or edits and re-executes
them.  and may be specified as a string (to locate the last command beginning
with that string) or as a number (an index into the history list, where a
negative number is used as an offset from the current command number).	When
listing, a first or last of 0 is equivalent to -1 and -0 is equivalent to the
current command (usually the fc command); otherwise 0 is equivalent to -1 and
-0 is invalid.	If is not specified, it is set to the current command for
listing (so that “fc -l -10” prints the last 10 commands) and to otherwise.
If is not specified, it is set to the previous command for editing and -16 for
listing.  If the option is supplied, the commands are listed on the standard
output.	 The option suppresses the command numbers when listing.  The option
reverses the order of the commands.  Otherwise, fc invokes the editor named by
on a file containing those commands.  If is not supplied, fc uses the value of
the variable, and the value of if is not set.  If neither variable is set, fc
uses vi. When editing is complete, fc reads the file containing the edited
commands and echoes and executes them.	In the second form, fc re-executes
command after replacing each instance of pat with rep.	Command is interpreted
the same as first above.  A useful alias to use with fc is “r="fc -s"”, so
that typing “r cc” runs the last command beginning with “cc” and typing “r”
re-executes the last command.  If the first form is used, the return value is
zero unless an invalid option is encountered or or specify history lines out
of range.  When editing and re-executing a file of commands, the return value
is the value of the last command executed or failure if an error occurs with
the temporary file.  If the second form is used, the return status is that of
the re-executed command, unless does not specify a valid history entry, in
which case returns a non-zero status.  fg [jobspec] Resume in the foreground,
and make it the current job.  If is not present, fg uses the shell's notion of
the current job.  The return value is that of the command placed into the
foreground, or failure if run when job control is disabled or, when run with
job control enabled, if does not specify a valid job or specifies a job that
was started without job control.  getopts optstring name [arg ...] is used by
shell scripts and functions to parse positional parameters and obtain options
and their arguments.  contains the option characters to be recognized; if a
character is followed by a colon, the option is expected to have an argument,
which should be separated from it by white space.  The colon and question mark
characters may not be used as option characters.  Each time it is invoked,
places the next option in the shell variable initializing if it does not
exist, and the index of the next argument to be processed into the variable is
initialized to 1 each time the shell or a shell script is invoked.  When an
option requires an argument, places that argument into the variable The shell
does not reset automatically; it must be manually reset between multiple calls
to within the same shell invocation to use a new set of parameters.  When it
reaches the end of options, getopts exits with a return value greater than
zero.  is set to the index of the first non-option argument, and name is set
to ?.  normally parses the positional parameters, but if more arguments are
supplied as values, parses those instead.  can report errors in two ways.  If
the first character of is a colon, getopts uses error reporting.  In normal
operation, getopts prints diagnostic messages when it encounters invalid
options or missing option arguments.  If the variable is set to 0, does not
display any error messages, even if the first character of is not a colon.  If
detects an invalid option, it places ? into and, if not silent, prints an
error message and unsets If is silent, it assigns the option character found
to and does not print a diagnostic message.  If a required argument is not
found, and is not silent, it sets the value of name to a question mark (?),
unsets and prints a diagnostic message.	 If is silent, it sets the value of
name to a colon (:) and sets to the option character found.  returns true if
an option, specified or unspecified, is found.	It returns false if the end of
options is encountered or an error occurs.  hash [-lr] [-p filename] [-dt]
[name] Each time hash is invoked, it remembers the full pathname of the
command as determined by searching the directories in Any previously-
remembered pathname associated with name is discarded.	If the option is
supplied, hash uses as the full pathname of the command.  The option causes
the shell to forget all remembered locations.  Assigning to the PATH variable
also clears all hashed filenames.  The option causes the shell to forget the
remembered location of each name.  If the option is supplied, hash prints the
full pathname corresponding to each name.  If multiple name arguments are
supplied with -t, hash prints the name before the corresponding hashed full
pathname.  The option displays output in a format that may be reused as input.
If no arguments are given, or if only -l is supplied, hash prints information
about remembered commands.  The -t, -d, and -p options (the options that act
on the name arguments) are mutually exclusive.	Only one will be active.  If
more than one is supplied, -t has higher priority than -p, and both have
higher priority than -d.  The return status is zero unless a is not found or
an invalid option is supplied.	help [-dms] [pattern] Display helpful
information about builtin commands.  If is specified, gives detailed help on
all commands matching as described below; otherwise it displays a list of all
the builtins and shell compound commands.  Options, if supplied, have the
follow meanings: Display a short description of each pattern Display the
description of each pattern in a manpage-like format Display only a short
usage synopsis for each pattern If pattern contains pattern matching
characters (see above) it's treated as a shell pattern and help prints the
description of each help topic matching pattern.  If not, and pattern exactly
matches the name of a help topic, help prints the description associated with
that topic.  Otherwise, help performs prefix matching and prints the
descriptions of all matching help topics.  The return status is 0 unless no
command matches history [n] history -c history -d offset history -d start-end
history -anrw [filename] history -p arg [arg ...] history -s arg [arg ...]
With no options, display the command history list with numbers.	 Entries
prefixed with a have been modified.  An argument of lists only the last
entries.  If the shell variable is set and not null, it is used as a format
string for to display the time stamp associated with each displayed history
entry.	If uses it does not print an intervening space between the formatted
time stamp and the history entry.  If filename is supplied, history uses it as
the name of the history file; if not, it uses the value of If filename is not
supplied and is unset or null, the -a, -n, -r, and -w options have no effect.
Options, if supplied, have the following meanings: Clear the history list by
deleting all the entries.  This can be used with the other options to replace
the history list.  -d offset Delete the history entry at position offset.  If
offset is negative, it is interpreted as relative to one greater than the last
history position, so negative indices count back from the end of the history,
and an index of -1 refers to the current history -d command.  -d start-end
Delete the range of history entries between positions start and end,
inclusive.  Positive and negative values for start and end are interpreted as
described above.  Append the “new” history lines to the history file.  These
are history lines entered since the beginning of the current bash session, but
not already appended to the history file.  Read the history lines not already
read from the history file and add them to the current history list.  These
are lines appended to the history file since the beginning of the current bash
session.  Read the history file and append its contents to the current history
list.  Write the current history list to the history file, overwriting the
history file.  Perform history substitution on the following args and display
the result on the standard output, without storing the results in the history
list.  Each arg must be quoted to disable normal history expansion.  Store the
in the history list as a single entry.	The last command in the history list
is removed before adding the If the variable is set, history writes the time
stamp information associated with each history entry to the history file,
marked with the history comment character as described above.  When the
history file is read, lines beginning with the history comment character
followed immediately by a digit are interpreted as timestamps for the
following history entry.  The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is
encountered, an error occurs while reading or writing the history file, an
invalid offset or range is supplied as an argument to -d, or the history
expansion supplied as an argument to -p fails.	jobs [-lnprs] [ jobspec ... ]
jobs -x command [ args ... ] The first form lists the active jobs.  The
options have the following meanings: List process IDs in addition to the
normal information.  Display information only about jobs that have changed
status since the user was last notified of their status.  List only the
process ID of the job's process group leader.  Display only running jobs.
Display only stopped jobs.  If is supplied, jobs restricts output to
information about that job.  The return status is 0 unless an invalid option
is encountered or an invalid is supplied.  If the option is supplied, replaces
any found in or with the corresponding process group ID, and executes passing
it returning its exit status.  kill [-s sigspec | -n signum | -sigspec] id [
... ] kill -l|-L [sigspec | exit_status] Send the signal specified by or to
the processes named by each Each may be a job specification jobspec or a
process ID pid.	 is either a case-insensitive signal name such as (with or
without the prefix) or a signal number; is a signal number.  If is not
supplied, then sends The option lists the signal names.	 If any arguments are
supplied when is given, lists the names of the signals corresponding to the
arguments, and the return status is 0.	The exit_status argument to is a
number specifying either a signal number or the exit status of a process
terminated by a signal; if it is supplied, kill prints the name of the signal
that caused the process to terminate.  kill assumes that process exit statuses
are greater than 128; anything less than that is a signal number.  The option
is equivalent to -l.  returns true if at least one signal was successfully
sent, or false if an error occurs or an invalid option is encountered.	let
arg [arg ...] Each is evaluated as an arithmetic expression (see above).  If
the last evaluates to 0, returns 1; otherwise returns 0.  local [option]
[name[=value] ... | - ] For each argument, create a local variable named and
assign it The option can be any of the options accepted by declare.  When is
used within a function, it causes the variable to have a visible scope
restricted to that function and its children.  It is an error to use when not
within a function.  If name is -, it makes the set of shell options local to
the function in which local is invoked: any shell options changed using the
set builtin inside the function after the call to local are restored to their
original values when the function returns.  The restore is performed as if a
series of set commands were executed to restore the values that were in place
before the function.  With no operands, writes a list of local variables to
the standard output.  The return status is 0 unless is used outside a
function, an invalid is supplied, or name is a readonly variable.  Exit a
login shell, returning a status of n to the shell's parent.  mapfile [-d
delim] [-n count] [-O origin] [-s count] [-t] [-u fd] [-C callback] [-c
quantum] [array] readarray [-d delim] [-n count] [-O origin] [-s count] [-t]
[-u fd] [-C callback] [-c quantum] [array] Read lines from the standard input,
or from file descriptor if the option is supplied, into the indexed array
variable The variable is the default array.  Options, if supplied, have the
following meanings: Use the first character of delim to terminate each input
line, rather than newline.  If delim is the empty string, mapfile will
terminate a line when it reads a NUL character.	 Copy at most lines.  If count
is 0, copy all lines.  Begin assigning to at index The default index is 0.
Discard the first count lines read.  Remove a trailing delim (default newline)
from each line read.  Read lines from file descriptor fd instead of the
standard input.	 Evaluate each time quantum lines are read.  The -c option
specifies Specify the number of lines read between each call to If is
specified without the default quantum is 5000.	When callback is evaluated, it
is supplied the index of the next array element to be assigned and the line to
be assigned to that element as additional arguments.  callback is evaluated
after the line is read but before the array element is assigned.  If not
supplied with an explicit origin, mapfile will clear array before assigning to
it.  mapfile returns zero unless an invalid option or option argument is
supplied, array is invalid or unassignable, or if array is not an indexed
array.	popd [-n] [+n] [-n] Remove entries from the directory stack.  The
elements are numbered from 0 starting at the first directory listed by dirs,
so popd is equivalent to “popd +0.” With no arguments, popd removes the top
directory from the stack, and changes to the new top directory.	 Arguments, if
supplied, have the following meanings: Suppress the normal change of directory
when removing directories from the stack, only manipulate the stack.  +n
Remove the nth entry counting from the left of the list shown by starting with
zero, from the stack.  For example: “popd +0” removes the first directory,
“popd +1” the second.  -n Remove the nth entry counting from the right of the
list shown by starting with zero.  For example: “popd -0” removes the last
directory, “popd -1” the next to last.	If the top element of the directory
stack is modified, and the -n option was not supplied, popd uses the cd
builtin to change to the directory at the top of the stack.  If the cd fails,
popd returns a non-zero value.	Otherwise, returns false if an invalid option
is supplied, the directory stack is empty, or n specifies a non-existent
directory stack entry.	If the command is successful, bash runs to show the
final contents of the directory stack, and the return status is 0.  printf [-v
var] format [arguments] Write the formatted arguments to the standard output
under the control of the format.  The -v option assigns the output to the
variable var rather than printing it to the standard output.  The format is a
character string which contains three types of objects: plain characters,
which are simply copied to standard output, character escape sequences, which
are converted and copied to the standard output, and format specifications,
each of which causes printing of the next successive argument.	In addition to
the standard format characters printf interprets the following additional
format specifiers: causes printf to expand backslash escape sequences in the
corresponding argument in the same way as echo -e.  causes printf to output
the corresponding argument in a format that can be reused as shell input.  %q
and %Q use the $'' quoting style if any characters in the argument string
require it, and backslash quoting otherwise.  If the format string uses the
printf alternate form, these two formats quote the argument string using
single quotes.	like %q, but applies any supplied precision to the argument
before quoting it.  causes printf to output the date-time string resulting
from using datefmt as a format string for The corresponding argument is an
integer representing the number of seconds since the epoch.  This format
specifier recognizes two special argument values: -1 represents the current
time, and -2 represents the time the shell was invoked.	 If no argument is
specified, conversion behaves as if -1 had been supplied.  This is an
exception to the usual printf behavior.	 The %b, %q, and %T format specifiers
all use the field width and precision arguments from the format specification
and write that many bytes from (or use that wide a field for) the expanded
argument, which usually contains more characters than the original.  The %n
format specifier accepts a corresponding argument that is treated as a shell
variable name.	The %s and %c format specifiers accept an l (long) modifier,
which forces them to convert the argument string to a wide-character string
and apply any supplied field width and precision in terms of characters, not
bytes.	The %S and %C format specifiers are equivalent to %ls and %lc,
respectively.  Arguments to non-string format specifiers are treated as C
constants, except that a leading plus or minus sign is allowed, and if the
leading character is a single or double quote, the value is the numeric value
of the following character, using the current locale.  The format is reused as
necessary to consume all of the arguments.  If the format requires more
arguments than are supplied, the extra format specifications behave as if a
zero value or null string, as appropriate, had been supplied.  The return
value is zero on success, non-zero if an invalid option is supplied or a write
or assignment error occurs.  pushd [-n] [+n] [-n] pushd [-n] [dir] Add a
directory to the top of the directory stack, or rotate the stack, making the
new top of the stack the current working directory.  With no arguments, pushd
exchanges the top two elements of the directory stack.	Arguments, if
supplied, have the following meanings: Suppress the normal change of directory
when rotating or adding directories to the stack, only manipulate the stack.
+n Rotate the stack so that the nth directory (counting from the left of the
list shown by starting with zero) is at the top.  -n Rotates the stack so that
the nth directory (counting from the right of the list shown by starting with
zero) is at the top.  Adds to the directory stack at the top.  After the stack
has been modified, if the -n option was not supplied, pushd uses the cd
builtin to change to the directory at the top of the stack.  If the cd fails,
pushd returns a non-zero value.	 Otherwise, if no arguments are supplied,
returns zero unless the directory stack is empty.  When rotating the directory
stack, returns zero unless the directory stack is empty or n specifies a non-
existent directory stack element.  If the command is successful, bash runs to
show the final contents of the directory stack.	 pwd [-LP] Print the absolute
pathname of the current working directory.  The pathname printed contains no
symbolic links if the option is supplied or the option to the builtin command
is enabled.  If the option is used, the pathname printed may contain symbolic
links.	The return status is 0 unless an error occurs while reading the name
of the current directory or an invalid option is supplied.  read [-Eers] [-a
aname] [-d delim] [-i text] [-n nchars] [-N nchars] [-p prompt] [-t timeout]
[-u fd] [name ...] Read one line from the standard input, or from the file
descriptor fd supplied as an argument to the -u option, split it into words as
described above under Word Splitting, and assign the first word to the first
the second word to the second and so on.  If there are more words than names,
the remaining words and their intervening delimiters are assigned to the last
If there are fewer words read from the input stream than names, the remaining
names are assigned empty values.  The characters in the value of the variable
are used to split the line into words using the same rules the shell uses for
expansion (described above under Word Splitting).  The backslash character (\)
removes any special meaning for the next character read and is used for line
continuation.  Options, if supplied, have the following meanings: The words
are assigned to sequential indices of the array variable starting at 0.	 is
unset before any new values are assigned.  Other name arguments are ignored.
The first character of delim terminates the input line, rather than newline.
If delim is the empty string, read will terminate a line when it reads a NUL
character.  If the standard input is coming from a terminal, read uses (see
above) to obtain the line.  Readline uses the current (or default, if line
editing was not previously active) editing settings, but uses readline's
default filename completion.  If the standard input is coming from a terminal,
read uses (see above) to obtain the line.  uses the current (or default, if
line editing was not previously active) editing settings, but uses bash's
default completion, including programmable completion.	If is being used to
read the line, read places text into the editing buffer before editing begins.
read returns after reading nchars characters rather than waiting for a
complete line of input, unless it encounters EOF or read times out, but honors
a delimiter if it reads fewer than nchars characters before the delimiter.
read returns after reading exactly nchars characters rather than waiting for a
complete line of input, unless it encounters EOF or read times out.  Any
delimiter characters in the input are not treated specially and do not cause
read to return until it has read nchars characters.  The result is not split
on the characters in IFS; the intent is that the variable is assigned exactly
the characters read (with the exception of backslash; see the -r option
below).	 Display prompt on standard error, without a trailing newline, before
attempting to read any input, but only if input is coming from a terminal.
Backslash does not act as an escape character.	The backslash is considered to
be part of the line.  In particular, a backslash-newline pair may not then be
used as a line continuation.  Silent mode.  If input is coming from a
terminal, characters are not echoed.  Cause read to time out and return
failure if it does not read a complete line of input (or a specified number of
characters) within timeout seconds.  timeout may be a decimal number with a
fractional portion following the decimal point.	 This option is only effective
if read is reading input from a terminal, pipe, or other special file; it has
no effect when reading from regular files.  If read times out, it saves any
partial input read into the specified variable name, and the exit status is
greater than 128.  If timeout is 0, read returns immediately, without trying
to read any data.  In this case, the exit status is 0 if input is available on
the specified file descriptor, or the read will return EOF, non-zero
otherwise.  Read input from file descriptor fd instead of the standard input.
Other than the case where delim is the empty string, read ignores any NUL
characters in the input.  If no are supplied, read assigns the line read,
without the ending delimiter but otherwise unmodified, to the variable The
exit status is zero, unless end-of-file is encountered, read times out (in
which case the status is greater than 128), a variable assignment error (such
as assigning to a readonly variable) occurs, or an invalid file descriptor is
supplied as the argument to -u.	 readonly [-aAf] [-p] [name[=word] ...] The
given names are marked readonly; the values of these may not be changed by
subsequent assignment or unset.	 If the option is supplied, each name refers
to a shell function.  The option restricts the variables to indexed arrays;
the option restricts the variables to associative arrays.  If both options are
supplied, takes precedence.  If no arguments are supplied, or if the option is
supplied, print a list of all readonly names.  The other options may be used
to restrict the output to a subset of the set of readonly names.  The option
displays output in a format that may be reused as input.  readonly allows the
value of a variable to be set at the same time the readonly attribute is
changed by following the variable name with =value.  This sets the value of
the variable is to value while modifying the readonly attribute.  The return
status is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, one of the is not a valid
shell variable name, or is supplied with a that is not a function.  return [n]
Stop executing a shell function or sourced file and return the value specified
by to its caller.  If is omitted, the return status is that of the last
command executed.  If return is executed by a trap handler, the last command
used to determine the status is the last command executed before the trap
handler.  If return is executed during a DEBUG trap, the last command used to
determine the status is the last command executed by the trap handler before
return was invoked.  When is used to terminate execution of a script being
executed by the (source) command, it causes the shell to stop executing that
script and return either or the exit status of the last command executed
within the script as the exit status of the script.  If n is supplied, the
return value is its least significant 8 bits.  Any command associated with the
RETURN trap is executed before execution resumes after the function or script.
The return status is non-zero if is supplied a non-numeric argument, or is
used outside a function and not during execution of a script by . or source.
set [-abefhkmnptuvxBCEHPT] [-o option-name] [--] [-] [arg ...] set
[+abefhkmnptuvxBCEHPT] [+o option-name] [--] [-] [arg ...] set -o set +o
Without options, display the name and value of each shell variable in a format
that can be reused as input for setting or resetting the currently-set
variables.  Read-only variables cannot be reset.  In posix mode, only shell
variables are listed.  The output is sorted according to the current locale.
When options are specified, they set or unset shell attributes.	 Any arguments
remaining after option processing are treated as values for the positional
parameters and are assigned, in order, to ..., Options, if specified, have the
following meanings: Each variable or function that is created or modified is
given the export attribute and marked for export to the environment of
subsequent commands.  Report the status of terminated background jobs
immediately, rather than before the next primary prompt or after a foreground
command terminates.  This is effective only when job control is enabled.  Exit
immediately if a pipeline (which may consist of a single simple command), a
list, or a compound command (see above), exits with a non-zero status.	The
shell does not exit if the command that fails is part of the command list
immediately following a or reserved word, part of the test following the or
reserved words, part of any command executed in a or list except the command
following the final && or ||, any command in a pipeline but the last (subject
to the state of the pipefail shell option), or if the command's return value
is being inverted with If a compound command other than a subshell returns a
non-zero status because a command failed while -e was being ignored, the shell
does not exit.	A trap on ERR, if set, is executed before the shell exits.
This option applies to the shell environment and each subshell environment
separately (see above), and may cause subshells to exit before executing all
the commands in the subshell.  If a compound command or shell function
executes in a context where -e is being ignored, none of the commands executed
within the compound command or function body will be affected by the -e
setting, even if -e is set and a command returns a failure status.  If a
compound command or shell function sets -e while executing in a context where
-e is ignored, that setting will not have any effect until the compound
command or the command containing the function call completes.	Disable
pathname expansion.  Remember the location of commands as they are looked up
for execution.	This is enabled by default.  All arguments in the form of
assignment statements are placed in the environment for a command, not just
those that precede the command name.  Monitor mode.  Job control is enabled.
This option is on by default for interactive shells on systems that support it
(see above).  All processes run in a separate process group.  When a
background job completes, the shell prints a line containing its exit status.
Read commands but do not execute them.	This may be used to check a shell
script for syntax errors.  This is ignored by interactive shells.  The
option-name can be one of the following: Same as Same as Use an emacs-style
command line editing interface.	 This is enabled by default when the shell is
interactive, unless the shell is started with the option.  This also affects
the editing interface used for read -e.	 Same as Same as Same as Same as Same
as Enable command history, as described above under This option is on by
default in interactive shells.	The effect is as if the shell command
“IGNOREEOF=10” had been executed (see above).  Same as Same as Same as Same as
Same as Currently ignored.  Same as Same as Same as Same as If set, the return
value of a pipeline is the value of the last (rightmost) command to exit with
a non-zero status, or zero if all commands in the pipeline exit successfully.
This option is disabled by default.  Enable posix mode; change the behavior of
where the default operation differs from the standard to match the standard.
See below for a reference to a document that details how posix mode affects
bash's behavior.  Same as Same as Use a vi-style command line editing
interface.  This also affects the editing interface used for read -e.  Same as
If is supplied with no option-name, set prints the current shell option
settings.  If is supplied with no option-name, set prints a series of commands
to recreate the current option settings on the standard output.	 Turn on mode.
In this mode, the shell does not read the and files, shell functions are not
inherited from the environment, and the and variables, if they appear in the
environment, are ignored.  If the shell is started with the effective user
(group) id not equal to the real user (group) id, and the -p option is not
supplied, these actions are taken and the effective user id is set to the real
user id.  If the -p option is supplied at startup, the effective user id is
not reset.  Turning this option off causes the effective user and group ids to
be set to the real user and group ids.	Enable restricted shell mode.  This
option cannot be unset once it has been set.  Exit after reading and executing
one command.  Treat unset variables and parameters other than the special
parameters “@” and “*”, or array variables subscripted with “@” or “*”, as an
error when performing parameter expansion.  If expansion is attempted on an
unset variable or parameter, the shell prints an error message, and, if not
interactive, exits with a non-zero status.  Print shell input lines as they
are read.  After expanding each simple command, for command, case command,
select command, or arithmetic for command, display the expanded value of
followed by the command and its expanded arguments or associated word list, to
the standard error.  The shell performs brace expansion (see above).  This is
on by default.	If set, does not overwrite an existing file with the and
redirection operators.	Using the redirection operator instead of will
override this and force the creation of an output file.	 If set, any trap on
ERR is inherited by shell functions, command substitutions, and commands
executed in a subshell environment.  The ERR trap is normally not inherited in
such cases.  Enable style history substitution.	 This option is on by default
when the shell is interactive.	If set, the shell does not resolve symbolic
links when executing commands such as that change the current working
directory.  It uses the physical directory structure instead.  By default,
follows the logical chain of directories when performing commands which change
the current directory.	If set, any traps on DEBUG and RETURN are inherited by
shell functions, command substitutions, and commands executed in a subshell
environment.  The DEBUG and RETURN traps are normally not inherited in such
cases.	If no arguments follow this option, unset the positional parameters.
Otherwise, set the positional parameters to the args, even if some of them
begin with a Signal the end of options, and assign all remaining args to the
positional parameters.	The and options are turned off.	 If there are no args,
the positional parameters remain unchanged.  The options are off by default
unless otherwise noted.	 Using + rather than - causes these options to be
turned off.  The options can also be specified as arguments to an invocation
of the shell.  The current set of options may be found in The return status is
always zero unless an invalid option is encountered.  shift [n] Rename
positional parameters from n+1 ... to Parameters represented by the numbers $#
down to $#-n+1 are unset.  must be a non-negative number less than or equal to
$#.  If is 0, no parameters are changed.  If is not given, it is assumed to be
1.  If is greater than $#, the positional parameters are not changed.  The
return status is greater than zero if is greater than or less than zero;
otherwise 0.  shopt [-pqsu] [-o] [optname ...] Toggle the values of settings
controlling optional shell behavior.  The settings can be either those listed
below, or, if the option is used, those available with the option to the set
builtin command.  With no options, or with the option, display a list of all
settable options, with an indication of whether or not each is set; if any
optnames are supplied, the output is restricted to those options.  The -p
option displays output in a form that may be reused as input.  Other options
have the following meanings: Enable (set) each optname.	 Disable (unset) each
optname.  Suppresses normal output (quiet mode); the return status indicates
whether the optname is set or unset.  If multiple optname arguments are
supplied with the return status is zero if all optnames are enabled; non-zero
otherwise.  Restricts the values of optname to be those defined for the option
to the builtin.	 If either or is used with no optname arguments, shows only
those options which are set or unset, respectively.  Unless otherwise noted,
the shopt options are disabled (unset) by default.  The return status when
listing options is zero if all optnames are enabled, non-zero otherwise.  When
setting or unsetting options, the return status is zero unless an optname is
not a valid shell option.  The list of shopt options is: If set, the shell
suppresses multiple evaluation of associative and indexed array subscripts
during arithmetic expression evaluation, while executing builtins that can
perform variable assignments, and while executing builtins that perform array
dereferencing.	Deprecated; a synonym for array_expand_once.  If set, a
command name that is the name of a directory is executed as if it were the
argument to the cd command.  This option is only used by interactive shells.
If set, filenames added to the BASH_SOURCE array variable are converted to
full pathnames (see Shell Variables above).  If set, an argument to the
builtin command that is not a directory is assumed to be the name of a
variable whose value is the directory to change to.  If set, the command
attempts to correct minor errors in the spelling of a directory component.
Minor errors include transposed characters, a missing character, and one extra
character.  If cd corrects the directory name, it prints the corrected
filename, and the command proceeds.  This option is only used by interactive
shells.	 If set, bash checks that a command found in the hash table exists
before trying to execute it.  If a hashed command no longer exists, bash
performs a normal path search.	If set, bash lists the status of any stopped
and running jobs before exiting an interactive shell.  If any jobs are
running, bash defers the exit until a second exit is attempted without an
intervening command (see above).  The shell always postpones exiting if any
jobs are stopped.  If set, bash checks the window size after each external
(non-builtin) command and, if necessary, updates the values of and using the
file descriptor associated with the standard error if it is a terminal.	 This
option is enabled by default.  If set, attempts to save all lines of a
multiple-line command in the same history entry.  This allows easy re-editing
of multi-line commands.	 This option is enabled by default, but only has an
effect if command history is enabled, as described above under These control
aspects of the shell's compatibility mode (see below).	If set, quotes all
shell metacharacters in filenames and directory names when performing
completion.  If not set, removes metacharacters such as the dollar sign from
the set of characters that will be quoted in completed filenames when these
metacharacters appear in shell variable references in words to be completed.
This means that dollar signs in variable names that expand to directories will
not be quoted; however, any dollar signs appearing in filenames will not be
quoted, either.	 This is active only when bash is using backslashes to quote
completed filenames.  This variable is set by default, which is the default
bash behavior in versions through 4.2.	If set, replaces directory names with
the results of word expansion when performing filename completion.  This
changes the contents of the readline editing buffer.  If not set, attempts to
preserve what the user typed.  If set, attempts spelling correction on
directory names during word completion if the directory name initially
supplied does not exist.  If set, includes filenames beginning with a “.” in
the results of pathname expansion.  The filenames . and .. must always be
matched explicitly, even if is set.  If set, a non-interactive shell will not
exit if it cannot execute the file specified as an argument to the builtin.
An interactive shell does not exit if fails.  If set, aliases are expanded as
described above under This option is enabled by default for interactive
shells.	 If set at shell invocation, or in a shell startup file, arrange to
execute the debugger profile before the shell starts, identical to the
--debugger option.  If set after invocation, behavior intended for use by
debuggers is enabled: The -F option to the declare builtin displays the source
file name and line number corresponding to each function name supplied as an
argument.  If the command run by the DEBUG trap returns a non-zero value, the
next command is skipped and not executed.  If the command run by the DEBUG
trap returns a value of 2, and the shell is executing in a subroutine (a shell
function or a shell script executed by the . or source builtins), the shell
simulates a call to return.  and are updated as described in their
descriptions above).  Function tracing is enabled: command substitution, shell
functions, and subshells invoked with ( command ) inherit the DEBUG and RETURN
traps.	Error tracing is enabled: command substitution, shell functions, and
subshells invoked with ( command ) inherit the ERR trap.  If set, enable the
extended pattern matching features described above under Pathname Expansion.
If set, $'string' and $"string" quoting is performed within ${parameter}
expansions enclosed in double quotes.  This option is enabled by default.  If
set, patterns which fail to match filenames during pathname expansion result
in an expansion error.	If set, the suffixes specified by the shell variable
cause words to be ignored when performing word completion even if the ignored
words are the only possible completions.  See above for a description of This
option is enabled by default.  If set, range expressions used in pattern
matching bracket expressions (see above) behave as if in the traditional C
locale when performing comparisons.  That is, pattern matching does not take
the current locale's collating sequence into account, so will not collate
between and and upper-case and lower-case ASCII characters will collate
together.  If set, pathname expansion will never match the filenames . and ..,
even if the pattern begins with a “.”.	This option is enabled by default.  If
set, the pattern ** used in a pathname expansion context will match all files
and zero or more directories and subdirectories.  If the pattern is followed
by a /, only directories and subdirectories match.  If set, shell error
messages are written in the standard GNU error message format.	If set, the
history list is appended to the file named by the value of the variable when
the shell exits, rather than overwriting the file.  If set, and is being used,
the user is given the opportunity to re-edit a failed history substitution.
If set, and is being used, the results of history substitution are not
immediately passed to the shell parser.	 Instead, the resulting line is loaded
into the readline editing buffer, allowing further modification.  If set, and
is being used, bash will attempt to perform hostname completion when a word
containing a @ is being completed (see under above).  This is enabled by
default.  If set, bash will send to all jobs when an interactive login shell
exits.	If set, command substitution inherits the value of the errexit option,
instead of unsetting it in the subshell environment.  This option is enabled
when posix mode is enabled.  In an interactive shell, a word beginning with #
causes that word and all remaining characters on that line to be ignored, as
in a non-interactive shell (see above).	 This option is enabled by default.
If set, and job control is not active, the shell runs the last command of a
pipeline not executed in the background in the current shell environment.  If
set, and the option is enabled, multi-line commands are saved to the history
with embedded newlines rather than using semicolon separators where possible.
If set, local variables inherit the value and attributes of a variable of the
same name that exists at a previous scope before any new value is assigned.
The nameref attribute is not inherited.	 If set, calling unset on local
variables in previous function scopes marks them so subsequent lookups find
them unset until that function returns.	 This is identical to the behavior of
unsetting local variables at the current function scope.  The shell sets this
option if it is started as a login shell (see above).  The value may not be
changed.  If set, and a file that bash is checking for mail has been accessed
since the last time it was checked, bash displays the message “The mail in
mailfile has been read”.  If set, and is being used, does not search for
possible completions when completion is attempted on an empty line.  If set,
matches filenames in a case-insensitive fashion when performing pathname
expansion (see above).	If set, matches patterns in a case-insensitive fashion
when performing matching while executing case or [[ conditional commands, when
performing pattern substitution word expansions, or when filtering possible
completions as part of programmable completion.	 If set, encloses the
translated results of quoting in single quotes instead of double quotes.  If
the string is not translated, this has no effect.  If set, pathname expansion
patterns which match no files (see above) expand to nothing and are removed,
rather than expanding to themselves.  If set, bash expands occurrences of & in
the replacement string of pattern substitution to the text matched by the
pattern, as described under Parameter Expansion above.	This option is enabled
by default.  If set, enable the programmable completion facilities (see
Programmable Completion above).	 This option is enabled by default.  If set,
and programmable completion is enabled, bash treats a command name that
doesn't have any completions as a possible alias and attempts alias expansion.
If it has an alias, bash attempts programmable completion using the command
word resulting from the expanded alias.	 If set, prompt strings undergo
parameter expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote
removal after being expanded as described in above.  This option is enabled by
default.  The shell sets this option if it is started in restricted mode (see
below).	 The value may not be changed.	This is not reset when the startup
files are executed, allowing the startup files to discover whether or not a
shell is restricted.  If set, the builtin prints an error message when the
shift count exceeds the number of positional parameters.  If set, the .
(source) builtin uses the value of to find the directory containing the file
supplied as an argument when the -p option is not supplied.  This option is
enabled by default.  If set, the shell automatically closes file descriptors
assigned using the {varname} redirection syntax (see above) instead of leaving
them open when the command completes.  If set, command history is logged to
syslog.	 If set, the echo builtin expands backslash-escape sequences by
default.  If the posix shell option is also enabled, echo does not interpret
any options.  suspend [-f] Suspend the execution of this shell until it
receives a signal.  A login shell, or a shell without job control enabled,
cannot be suspended; the option will override this and force the suspension.
The return status is 0 unless the shell is a login shell or job control is not
enabled and is not supplied.  test expr [ expr ] Return a status of 0 (true)
or 1 (false) depending on the evaluation of the conditional expression Each
operator and operand must be a separate argument.  Expressions are composed of
the primaries described above under test does not accept any options, nor does
it accept and ignore an argument of -- as signifying the end of options.
Expressions may be combined using the following operators, listed in
decreasing order of precedence.	 The evaluation depends on the number of
arguments; see below.  test uses operator precedence when there are five or
more arguments.	 True if is false.  Returns the value of expr.	This may be
used to override normal operator precedence.  expr1 -a expr2 True if both and
are true.  expr1 -o expr2 True if either or is true.  test and [ evaluate
conditional expressions using a set of rules based on the number of arguments.
0 arguments The expression is false.  1 argument The expression is true if and
only if the argument is not null.  2 arguments If the first argument is !, the
expression is true if and only if the second argument is null.	If the first
argument is one of the unary conditional operators listed above under the
expression is true if the unary test is true.  If the first argument is not a
valid unary conditional operator, the expression is false.  3 arguments The
following conditions are applied in the order listed.  If the second argument
is one of the binary conditional operators listed above under the result of
the expression is the result of the binary test using the first and third
arguments as operands.	The -a and -o operators are considered binary
operators when there are three arguments.  If the first argument is !, the
value is the negation of the two-argument test using the second and third
arguments.  If the first argument is exactly ( and the third argument is
exactly ), the result is the one-argument test of the second argument.
Otherwise, the expression is false.  4 arguments The following conditions are
applied in the order listed.  If the first argument is !, the result is the
negation of the three-argument expression composed of the remaining arguments.
If the first argument is exactly ( and the fourth argument is exactly ), the
result is the two-argument test of the second and third arguments.  Otherwise,
the expression is parsed and evaluated according to precedence using the rules
listed above.  5 or more arguments The expression is parsed and evaluated
according to precedence using the rules listed above.  When the shell is in
posix mode, or if the expression is part of the [[ command, the < and >
operators sort using the current locale.  If the shell is not in posix mode,
the test and [ commands sort lexicographically using ASCII ordering.  The
historical operator-precedence parsing with 4 or more arguments can lead to
ambiguities when it encounters strings that look like primaries.  The standard
has deprecated the -a and -o primaries and enclosing expressions within
parentheses.  Scripts should no longer use them.  It's much more reliable to
restrict test invocations to a single primary, and to replace uses of -a and
-o with the shell's && and || list operators.  Print the accumulated user and
system times for the shell and for processes run from the shell.  The return
status is 0.  trap [-lpP] [[action] sigspec ...] The is a command that is read
and executed when the shell receives any of the signals If is absent (and
there is a single sigspec) or each specified sigspec is reset to the value it
had when the shell was started.	 If is the null string the signal specified by
each is ignored by the shell and by the commands it invokes.  If no arguments
are supplied, displays the actions associated with each trapped signal as a
set of trap commands that can be reused as shell input to restore the current
signal dispositions.  If is given, and is not present, then trap displays the
actions associated with each or, if none are supplied, for all trapped
signals, as a set of trap commands that can be reused as shell input to
restore the current signal dispositions.  The option behaves similarly, but
displays only the actions associated with each sigspec argument.  requires at
least one sigspec argument.  The -P or -p options may be used in a subshell
environment (e.g., command substitution) and, as long as they are used before
trap is used to change a signal's handling, will display the state of its
parent's traps.	 The option prints a list of signal names and their
corresponding numbers.	Each is either a signal name defined in <signal.h>, or
a signal number.  Signal names are case insensitive and the prefix is
optional.  If -l is supplied with no sigspec arguments, it prints a list of
valid signal names.  If a is (0), is executed on exit from the shell.  If a is
is executed before every simple command, for command, case command, select
command, (( arithmetic command, [[ conditional command, arithmetic for
command, and before the first command executes in a shell function (see
above).	 Refer to the description of the extdebug shell option (see above) for
details of its effect on the DEBUG trap.  If a is is executed each time a
shell function or a script executed with the . or source builtins finishes
executing.  If a is is executed whenever a pipeline (which may consist of a
single simple command), a list, or a compound command returns a non-zero exit
status, subject to the following conditions.  The trap is not executed if the
failed command is part of the command list immediately following a or reserved
word, part of the test in an statement, part of a command executed in a or
list except the command following the final && or ||, any command in a
pipeline but the last (subject to the state of the pipefail shell option), or
if the command's return value is being inverted using These are the same
conditions obeyed by the errexit (-e) option.  When the shell is not
interactive, signals ignored upon entry to the shell cannot be trapped, reset
or listed.  Interactive shells permit trapping signals ignored on entry.
Trapped signals that are not being ignored are reset to their original values
in a subshell or subshell environment when one is created.  The return status
is false if any is invalid; otherwise returns true.  true Does nothing,
returns a 0 status.  type [-aftpP] name [name ...] Indicate how each would be
interpreted if used as a command name.	If the option is used, prints a string
which is one of or if is an alias, shell reserved word, function, builtin, or
executable file, respectively.	If the is not found, type prints nothing and
returns a non-zero exit status.	 If the option is used, either returns the
pathname of the executable file that would be found by searching for or
nothing if “type -t name” would not return The option forces a search for each
name, even if “type -t name” would not return If name is present in the table
of hashed commands, and print the hashed value, which is not necessarily the
file that appears first in If the option is used, prints all of the places
that contain a command named This includes aliases, reserved words, functions,
and builtins, but the path search options (-p and -P) can be supplied to
restrict the output to executable files.  type does not consult the table of
hashed commands when using with and only performs a search for name.  The
option suppresses shell function lookup, as with the command builtin.  returns
true if all of the arguments are found, false if any are not found.  ulimit
[-HS] -a ulimit [-HS] [-bcdefiklmnpqrstuvxPRT [limit]] Provides control over
the resources available to the shell and to processes it starts, on systems
that allow such control.  The -H and -S options specify whether the hard or
soft limit is set for the given resource.  A hard limit cannot be increased by
a non-root user once it is set; a soft limit may be increased up to the value
of the hard limit.  If neither -H nor -S is specified, ulimit sets both the
soft and hard limits.  The value of can be a number in the unit specified for
the resource or one of the special values or which stand for the current hard
limit, the current soft limit, and no limit, respectively.  If is omitted,
ulimit prints the current value of the soft limit of the resource, unless the
-H option is given.  When more than one resource is specified, the limit name
and unit, if appropriate, are printed before the value.	 Other options are
interpreted as follows: Report all current limits; no limits are set.  The
maximum socket buffer size.  The maximum size of core files created.  The
maximum size of a process's data segment.  The maximum scheduling priority
(“nice”).  The maximum size of files written by the shell and its children.
The maximum number of pending signals.	The maximum number of kqueues that may
be allocated.  The maximum size that may be locked into memory.	 The maximum
resident set size (many systems do not honor this limit).  The maximum number
of open file descriptors (most systems do not allow this value to be set).
The pipe size in 512-byte blocks (this may not be set).	 The maximum number of
bytes in message queues.  The maximum real-time scheduling priority.  The
maximum stack size.  The maximum amount of cpu time in seconds.	 The maximum
number of processes available to a single user.	 The maximum amount of virtual
memory available to the shell and, on some systems, to its children.  The
maximum number of file locks.  The maximum number of pseudoterminals.  The
maximum time a real-time process can run before blocking, in microseconds.
The maximum number of threads.	If is supplied, and the option is not used,
limit is the new value of the specified resource.  If no option is supplied,
then is assumed.  Values are in 1024-byte increments, except for which is in
seconds; which is in microseconds; which is in units of 512-byte blocks; and
which are unscaled values; and, when in posix mode, and which are in 512-byte
increments.  The return status is 0 unless an invalid option or argument is
supplied, or an error occurs while setting a new limit.	 In POSIX Mode
512-byte blocks are used for the `-c' and `-f' options.	 umask [-p] [-S]
[mode] Set the user file-creation mask to If begins with a digit, it is
interpreted as an octal number; otherwise it is interpreted as a symbolic mode
mask similar to that accepted by If is omitted, umask prints the current value
of the mask.  The option without a mode argument prints the mask in a symbolic
format; the default output is an octal number.	If the option is supplied, and
is omitted, the output is in a form that may be reused as input.  The return
status is zero if the mode was successfully changed or if no mode argument was
supplied, and non-zero otherwise.  unalias [-a] [name ...] Remove each name
from the list of defined aliases.  If is supplied, remove all alias
definitions.  The return value is true unless a supplied is not a defined
alias.	unset [-fv] [-n] [name ...] For each remove the corresponding variable
or function.  If the option is given, each refers to a shell variable, and
that variable is removed.  If is specified, each refers to a shell function,
and the function definition is removed.	 If the option is supplied, and name
is a variable with the nameref attribute, name will be unset rather than the
variable it references.	 -n has no effect if the -f option is supplied.	 Read-
only variables and functions may not be unset.	When variables or functions
are removed, they are also removed from the environment passed to subsequent
commands.  If no options are supplied, each name refers to a variable; if
there is no variable by that name, a function with that name, if any, is
unset.	Some shell variables may not be unset.	If any of or are unset, they
lose their special properties, even if they are subsequently reset.  The exit
status is true unless a is readonly or may not be unset.  wait [-fn] [-p
varname] [id ...] Wait for each specified child process id and return the
termination status of the last id.  Each id may be a process ID pid or a job
specification jobspec; if a jobspec is supplied, wait waits for all processes
in the job.  If no options or ids are supplied, wait waits for all running
background jobs and the last-executed process substitution, if its process id
is the same as $!, and the return status is zero.  If the -n option is
supplied, wait waits for any one of the given ids or, if no ids are supplied,
any job or process substitution, to complete and returns its exit status.  If
none of the supplied ids is a child of the shell, or if no ids are supplied
and the shell has no unwaited-for children, the exit status is 127.  If the -p
option is supplied, wait assigns the process or job identifier of the job for
which the exit status is returned to the variable varname named by the option
argument.  The variable, which cannot be readonly, will be unset initially,
before any assignment.	This is useful only when used with the -n option.
Supplying the -f option, when job control is enabled, forces wait to wait for
each id to terminate before returning its status, instead of returning when it
changes status.	 If none of the ids specify one of the shell's active child
processes, the return status is 127.  If wait is interrupted by a signal, any
varname will remain unset, and the return status will be greater than 128, as
described under above.	Otherwise, the return status is the exit status of the
last id.  Bash-4.0 introduced the concept of a shell compatibility level,
specified as a set of options to the shopt builtin (and so on).	 There is only
one current compatibility level — each option is mutually exclusive.  The
compatibility level is intended to allow users to select behavior from
previous versions that is incompatible with newer versions while they migrate
scripts to use current features and behavior.  It's intended to be a temporary
solution.  This section does not mention behavior that is standard for a
particular version (e.g., setting compat32 means that quoting the right hand
side of the regexp matching operator quotes special regexp characters in the
word, which is default behavior in bash-3.2 and subsequent versions).  If a
user enables, say, compat32, it may affect the behavior of other compatibility
levels up to and including the current compatibility level.  The idea is that
each compatibility level controls behavior that changed in that version of
bash, but that behavior may have been present in earlier versions.  For
instance, the change to use locale-based comparisons with the [[ command came
in bash-4.1, and earlier versions used ASCII-based comparisons, so enabling
compat32 will enable ASCII-based comparisons as well.  That granularity may
not be sufficient for all uses, and as a result users should employ
compatibility levels carefully.	 Read the documentation for a particular
feature to find out the current behavior.  Bash-4.3 introduced a new shell
variable: The value assigned to this variable (a decimal version number like
4.2, or an integer corresponding to the compatNN option, like 42) determines
the compatibility level.  Starting with bash-4.4, bash began deprecating older
compatibility levels.  Eventually, the options will be removed in favor of
Bash-5.0 was the final version for which there was an individual shopt option
for the previous version.  is the only mechanism to control the compatibility
level in versions newer than bash-5.0.	The following table describes the
behavior changes controlled by each compatibility level setting.  The compatNN
tag is used as shorthand for setting the compatibility level to NN using one
of the following mechanisms.  For versions prior to bash-5.0, the
compatibility level may be set using the corresponding compatNN shopt option.
For bash-4.3 and later versions, the variable is preferred, and it is required
for bash-5.1 and later versions.  compat31 Quoting the rhs of the [[ command's
regexp matching operator (=~) has no special effect.  compat32 The < and >
operators to the [[ command do not consider the current locale when comparing
strings; they use ASCII ordering.  compat40 The < and > operators to the [[
command do not consider the current locale when comparing strings; they use
ASCII ordering.	 Bash versions prior to bash-4.1 use ASCII collation and
bash-4.1 and later use the current locale's collation sequence and compat41 In
posix mode, time may be followed by options and still be recognized as a
reserved word (this is interpretation 267).  In posix mode, the parser
requires that an even number of single quotes occur in the word portion of a
double-quoted parameter expansion and treats them specially, so that
characters within the single quotes are considered quoted (this is
interpretation 221).  compat42 The replacement string in double-quoted pattern
substitution does not undergo quote removal, as it does in versions after
bash-4.2.  In posix mode, single quotes are considered special when expanding
the word portion of a double-quoted parameter expansion and can be used to
quote a closing brace or other special character (this is part of
interpretation 221); in later versions, single quotes are not special within
double-quoted word expansions.	compat43 Word expansion errors are considered
non-fatal errors that cause the current command to fail, even in posix mode
(the default behavior is to make them fatal errors that cause the shell to
exit).	When executing a shell function, the loop state (while/until/etc.)  is
not reset, so break or continue in that function will break or continue loops
in the calling context.	 Bash-4.4 and later reset the loop state to prevent
this.  compat44 The shell sets up the values used by and so they can expand to
the shell's positional parameters even if extended debugging mode is not
enabled.  A subshell inherits loops from its parent context, so break or
continue will cause the subshell to exit.  Bash-5.0 and later reset the loop
state to prevent the exit Variable assignments preceding builtins like export
and readonly that set attributes continue to affect variables with the same
name in the calling environment even if the shell is not in posix mode.
compat50 Bash-5.1 changed the way is generated to introduce slightly more
randomness.  If the shell compatibility level is set to 50 or lower, it
reverts to the method from bash-5.0 and previous versions, so seeding the
random number generator by assigning a value to will produce the same sequence
as in bash-5.0.	 If the command hash table is empty, bash versions prior to
bash-5.1 printed an informational message to that effect, even when producing
output that can be reused as input.  Bash-5.1 suppresses that message when the
-l option is supplied.	compat51 The unset builtin treats attempts to unset
array subscripts @ and * differently depending on whether the array is indexed
or associative, and differently than in previous versions.  Arithmetic
commands ( ) and the expressions in an arithmetic for statement can be
expanded more than once.  Expressions used as arguments to arithmetic
operators in the [[ conditional command can be expanded more than once.	 The
expressions in substring parameter brace expansion can be expanded more than
once.  The expressions in the word expansion can be expanded more than once.
Arithmetic expressions used as indexed array subscripts can be expanded more
than once.  test -v, when given an argument of A[@], where A is an existing
associative array, will return true if the array has any set elements.
Bash-5.2 will look for and report on a key named @.  The ${parameter[:]=value}
word expansion will return value, before any variable-specific transformations
have been performed (e.g., converting to lowercase).  Bash-5.2 will return the
final value assigned to the variable.  Parsing command substitutions will
behave as if extended globbing (see the description of the builtin above) is
enabled, so that parsing a command substitution containing an extglob pattern
(say, as part of a shell function) will not fail.  This assumes the intent is
to enable extglob before the command is executed and word expansions are
performed.  It will fail at word expansion time if extglob hasn't been enabled
by the time the command is executed.  compat52 The test builtin uses its
historical algorithm to parse parenthesized subexpressions when given five or
more arguments.	 If the -p or -P option is supplied to the bind builtin, bind
treats any arguments remaining after option processing as bindable command
names, and displays any key sequences bound to those commands, instead of
treating the arguments as key sequences to bind.  If is started with the name
or the option is supplied at invocation, the shell becomes restricted.	A
restricted shell is used to set up an environment more controlled than the
standard shell.	 It behaves identically to with the exception that the
following are disallowed or not performed: Changing directories with cd.
Setting or unsetting the values of or Specifying command names containing
Specifying a filename containing a as an argument to the builtin command.
Using the -p option to the builtin command to specify a search path.
Specifying a filename containing a slash as an argument to the builtin
command.  Specifying a filename containing a slash as an argument to the
option to the builtin command.	Importing function definitions from the shell
environment at startup.	 Parsing the values of and from the shell environment
at startup.  Redirecting output using the >, >|, <>, >&, &>, and >>
redirection operators.	Using the builtin command to replace the shell with
another command.  Adding or deleting builtin commands with the and options to
the builtin command.  Using the enable builtin command to enable disabled
shell builtins.	 Specifying the option to the builtin command.	Turning off
restricted mode with set +r or shopt -u restricted_shell.  These restrictions
are enforced after any startup files are read.	When a command that is found
to be a shell script is executed (see above), turns off any restrictions in
the shell spawned to execute the script.  Bash Reference Manual, Brian Fox and
Chet Ramey The Gnu Readline Library, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey The Gnu History
Library, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX)
Part 2: Shell and Utilities, IEEE —
http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9799919799/
http://tiswww.case.edu/~chet/bash/POSIX — a description of posix mode sh(1),
ksh(1), csh(1) emacs(1), vi(1) readline(3) /bin/bash The bash executable
/etc/profile The systemwide initialization file, executed for login shells
/etc/bash.bash_logout The systemwide login shell cleanup file, executed when a
login shell exits ~/.bash_profile The personal initialization file, executed
for login shells ~/.bashrc The individual per-interactive-shell startup file
~/.bash_logout The individual login shell cleanup file, executed when a login
shell exits ~/.bash_history The default value of HISTFILE, the file in which
bash saves the command history ~/.inputrc Individual readline initialization
file Brian Fox, Free Software Foundation
bfox@gnu.org Chet Ramey, Case Western Reserve University
chet.ramey@case.edu If you find a bug in you should report it.	But first, you
should make sure that it really is a bug, and that it appears in the latest
version of The latest version is always available from
ftp://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/bash/ and
http://git.savannah.gnu.org/cgit/bash.git/snapshot/bash-master.tar.gz.	Once
you have determined that a bug actually exists, use the command to submit a
bug report.  If you have a fix, you are encouraged to mail that as well!  You
may send suggestions and “philosophical” bug reports to bug-bash@gnu.org or
post them to the Usenet newsgroup ALL bug reports should include: The version
number of bash The hardware and operating system The compiler used to compile
A description of the bug behavior A short script or “recipe” which exercises
the bug inserts the first three items automatically into the template it
provides for filing a bug report.  Comments and bug reports concerning this
manual page should be directed to It's too big and too slow.  There are some
subtle differences between and traditional versions of mostly because of the
specification.	Aliases are confusing in some uses.  Shell builtin commands
and functions are not stoppable/restartable.  Compound commands and command
lists of the form “a ; b ; c” are not handled gracefully when combined with
process suspension.  When a process is stopped, the shell immediately executes
the next command in the list or breaks out of any existing loops.  It suffices
to enclose the command in parentheses to force it into a subshell, which may
be stopped as a unit, or to start the command in the background and
immediately bring it into the foreground.  Array variables may not (yet) be
exported.


