slabtop - display kernel slab cache information in real time [options]
displays detailed kernel slab cache information in real time.  It displays a
listing of the top caches sorted by one of the listed sort criteria.  It also
displays a statistics header filled with slab layer information.  Normal
invocation of does not require any options.  The behavior, however, can be
fine-tuned by specifying one or more of the following flags: -d, --delay=N
Refresh the display every in seconds.  By default, refreshes the display every
three seconds.	To exit the program, hit This cannot be combined with the -o
option.	 -s, --sort=S Sort by S, where S is one of the sort criteria.  -o,
--once Display the output once and then exit.  -V, --version Display version
information and exit.  -h, --help Display usage information and exit.  The
following are valid sort criteria used to sort the individual slab caches and
thereby determine what are the "top" slab caches to display.  The default sort
criteria is to sort by the number of objects ("o").  The sort criteria can
also be changed while is running by pressing the associated character.
character   description		       header
a	    number of active objects   ACTIVE
b	    objects per slab	       OBJ/SLAB
c	    cache size		       CACHE SIZE
l	    number of slabs	       SLABS
v	    number of active slabs     N/A
n	    name		       NAME
o	    number of objects	       OBJS
p	    pages per slab	       N/A
s	    object size		       OBJ SIZE
u	    cache utilization	       USE
accepts keyboard commands from the user during use.  The following are
supported.  In the case of letters, both cases are accepted.  Each of the
valid sort characters are also accepted, to change the sort routine. See the
section Refresh the screen.  Quit the program.	slab information Currently,
requires a 2.4 or later kernel (specifically, a version 1.1 or later Kernel
2.2 should be supported in the future.	The statistic header is tracking how
many bytes of slabs are being used and is not a measure of physical memory.
The 'Slab' field in the /proc/meminfo file is tracking information about used
slab physical memory.  The column is not accurate, it's the upper limit of
memory used by specific slab. When system using slub (most common case) is
under high memory pressure, there are slab order fallbacks, which means "pages
per slab" is not constant and may decrease.  Written by Chris Rivera and
Robert Love.  was inspired by Martin Bligh's perl script, Please send bug
reports to


