stapbpf - systemtap bpf runtime




[ ]


The program is the BPF back-end of the Systemtap tool.	It expects a bpf-elf
file produced by the front-end tool, when run with

Splitting the systemtap tool into a front-end and a back-end allows a user to
compile a systemtap script on a development machine that has the debugging
information needed to compile the script and then transfer the resulting
shared object to a production machine that doesn't have any development tools
or debugging information installed.  Please refer to for the version number,
or run	$ rpm -q systemtap # (for Fedora/RHEL)
 $ apt-get -v systemtap # (for Ubuntu)

The program supports the following options.  Any other option prints a list of
supported options.  Verbose mode.  Print version number and exit.  Suppress
warnings from the script.  Print help message.	The '_stp_target' variable
will be set to PID.  Send output to FILE.

is the path of a bpf-elf file produced by the front-end tool, when run with

Here is a very basic example of how to generate a module.  First, use to
compile a script.  The program will report the name of the resulting module in
the current working directory.	 $ stap --runtime=bpf -p4 -e 'probe begin {
printf("Hello World!\n"); exit() }'
 stap_28784.bo Run with the pathname to the module as an argument.   $ stapbpf
./stap_28784.bo
 Hello World!  If the option is omitted, will invoke automatically.

This runtime is in an early stage of development and it currently lacks
support for a number of features available in the default runtime.  A subset
of the following probe points is supported:


begin
end
kernel.*
process.*
timer.*
perf.*
procfs.*


In general, probes based on the kprobes, uprobes, tracepoint and perf
infrastructures are supported. See for more information on the probe points
and which tracing infrastructures they are based on.

loops, loops and loops are usable only in and probes.  statements are not
supported.

There is limited support for string operations. String variables and literals
are limited to 64 characters, except for format strings, which are limited to
256 characters.

A subset of the statistical aggregate functionality is available, with support
only for the extractor functions.

The name of the bpf-elf file produced by the front-end tool should not be
changed.

See the manual page for additional information on safety and security.


Use the Bugzilla link of the project web page or our mailing list.


