strace - trace system calls and signals In its simplest use case, runs the
specified until it exits.  It intercepts and records the system calls made by
a process and the signals a process receives.  The name of each system call,
its arguments, and its return value are printed to standard error or to the
file specified with the option.	 is a useful diagnostic, instructional, and
debugging tool.	 System administrators, diagnosticians, and troubleshooters
will find it invaluable for solving problems with programs for which source
code is not readily available, as recompilation is not required for tracing.
Students, hackers, and the overly-curious will discover that a great deal can
be learned about a system and its system calls by tracing even ordinary
programs.  Programmers will find that since system calls and signals occur at
the user/kernel interface, a close examination of this boundary is very useful
for bug isolation, sanity checking, and attempting to capture race conditions.
Each line in the trace contains the system call name, followed by its
arguments in parentheses and its return value.	An example from tracing the
command "cat /dev/null" is:

open("/dev/null", O_RDONLY) = 3

Errors, typically indicated by a return value of -1, have the symbol and error
string appended.

open("/foo/bar", O_RDONLY) = -1 ENOENT (No such file or directory)

Signals are printed as a signal symbol and a decoded structure.	 An excerpt
from tracing and interrupting the command "sleep 666" is:

sigsuspend([] <unfinished ...>
--- SIGINT {si_signo=SIGINT, si_code=SI_USER, si_pid=...} ---
+++ killed by SIGINT +++

If a system call is being executed while another is called from a different
thread or process, will attempt to preserve the order of these events and mark
the ongoing call as When the call returns, it will be marked as

[pid 28772] select(4, [3], NULL, NULL, NULL <unfinished ...>
[pid 28779] clock_gettime(CLOCK_REALTIME, {tv_sec=1130322148, tv_nsec=3977000}) = 0
[pid 28772] <... select resumed> )	= 1 (in [3])

The interruption of a (restartable) system call by a signal delivery is
handled differently, as the kernel terminates the system call and arranges for
its immediate re-execution after the signal handler completes.

read(0, 0x7ffff72cf5cf, 1)		= ? ERESTARTSYS (To be restarted)
--- SIGALRM {si_signo=SIGALRM, si_code=SI_KERNEL} ---
rt_sigreturn({mask=[]})			= 0
read(0, "", 1)				= 0

Arguments are printed in symbolic form with passion.  This example shows the
shell performing ">>xyzzy" output redirection:

open("xyzzy", O_WRONLY|O_APPEND|O_CREAT, 0666) = 3

Here, the second and third arguments of are decoded by breaking down the flag
argument into its three bitwise-OR constituents and printing the mode value in
octal, following tradition.  Where traditional or native usage differs from
ANSI or POSIX, the latter forms are preferred.	In some cases, output has
proven to be more readable than the source code itself.	 Structure pointers
are dereferenced, and their members are displayed as appropriate.  In most
cases, arguments are formatted in the most C-like fashion possible.  For
example, the essence of the command "ls -l /dev/null" is captured as:

lstat("/dev/null", {st_mode=S_IFCHR|0666, st_rdev=makedev(0x1, 0x3), ...}) = 0

Notice how the argument is dereferenced and how each member is displayed
symbolically.  In particular, observe how the member is carefully decoded into
a bitwise-OR of symbolic and numeric values.  Also, note that in this example,
the first argument to is an input to the system call, and the second argument
is an output.  Since output arguments are not modified if the system call
fails, arguments may not always be dereferenced.  For example, retrying the
"ls -l" example with a non-existent file produces the following line:

lstat("/foo/bar", 0xb004) = -1 ENOENT (No such file or directory)

In this case, the porch light is on but nobody is home.	 The pointer's value
is displayed because the structure it points to was not populated due to the
error.	System calls unknown to are printed in a raw format, with the
hexadecimal system call number prefixed with "syscall_":

syscall_0xbad(0x1, 0x2, 0x3, 0x4, 0x5, 0x6) = -1 ENOSYS (Function not implemented)

Character pointers are dereferenced and printed as C strings.  Non-printing
characters in strings are normally represented by standard C escape codes.
Only the first (32 by default) bytes of strings are printed; longer strings
have an ellipsis appended following the closing quote.	Here is a line from
"ls -l" where the library routine is reading the password file:

read(3, "root::0:0:System Administrator:/"..., 1024) = 422

While structures are annotated using curly braces, pointers to basic types and
arrays are printed using square brackets with commas separating the elements.
Here is an example from the command on a system with supplementary group IDs:

getgroups(32, [100, 0]) = 2

On the other hand, bit-sets are also shown using square brackets, but set
elements are separated only by a space.	 Here is the shell, preparing to
execute an external command:

sigprocmask(SIG_BLOCK, [CHLD TTOU], []) = 0

Here, the second argument is a bit-set of two signals, In some cases, the bit-
set is so full that it is more valuable to print the unset elements.  In that
case, the bit-set is prefixed by a tilde, like this:

sigprocmask(SIG_UNBLOCK, ~[], NULL) = 0

Here, the second argument represents the full set of all signals.  Modifies
which events to trace or how to trace them by specifying a qualifying
expression.  The format of the expression is: [qualifier=][!]value[,value]...
where is one of or and is a qualifier-dependent symbol or number.  The default
qualifier is Using an exclamation mark negates the set of values.  For
example, is equivalent to which in turn means trace only the system call.  By
contrast, means to trace every system call except In addition, the special
values and may be used to trace every event or no events, respectively.	 Note
that some shells use the exclamation mark for history expansion even inside
quoted arguments.  In that case, the exclamation mark must be escaped with a
backslash.  -E var=val Runs the command with the environment variable set for
execution.  Removes from the inherited environment variables before executing
the command.  Attaches to the process with the process and begin tracing.  The
trace may be terminated at any time by a keyboard interrupt signal will
respond by detaching itself from the traced processes, leaving them to
continue running.  Multiple options can be used to attach to several processes
in addition to the command, which is optional if at least one option is given.
A single option can accept multiple process IDs separated by a comma (“,”),
space (“ ”), tab, or newline.  Consequently, syntaxes like "$(pidof PROG)" and
"$(pgrep PROG)" are supported.	Runs command with the user ID, group ID, and
supplementary groups of This option is only useful when running as root, as it
enables the correct execution of setuid and/or setgid binaries.	 Unless this
option is used, setuid and setgid programs are executed without their
effective privileges.  Alternative syntax where the program is started with
exactly the given user and group IDs, and an empty list of supplementary
groups.	 In this case, user and group name lookups are not performed.  Sets
the executed command's argv[0] to This is useful for tracing multi-call
executables that interpret argv[0], such as busybox or kmod.  Detaches from
the traced process if the specified system call is reached.  Currently, only
keyword is supported, which includes and system calls.	This option is useful
for tracing a multi-threaded process with without also tracing its
(potentially very complex) child processes.  Runs the tracer process as a
grandchild of the tracee, not as its parent.  This reduces the visible effect
of by keeping the tracee a direct child of the calling process.	 Runs tracer
process as tracee's grandchild in a separate process group.  In addition to
reducing the visible effect of this also prevents from being terminated by a
signal sent to the entire process group.  Runs the tracer process as the
tracee's grandchild in a separate session (known as "true daemonisation").  In
addition to reduction of the visible effect of this also prevents from being
terminated upon session termination.  Traces child processes as they are
created by currently traced processes as a result of the and system calls.
Note that if process is multi-threaded, using attaches to all of its threads,
not just the one with If the option is in effect, the trace for each process
is written to a separate file, where is the process ID.	 Combines the effects
of and options.	 This is incompatible with since no per-process counts are
kept.  Use to get a combined view of the log files.  Controls when can be
interrupted by signals (such as pressing no signals are blocked; fatal signals
are blocked while decoding system call (default); fatal signals are always
blocked (default if fatal signals and are always blocked (useful to make not
stop on default if Detaches all tracees after system calls have been captured.
System calls filtered out via or options are not considered when keeping track
of the number of system calls that are captured.  Applies the ptrace option to
all tracees, which sends a SIGKILL signal to a tracee if the tracer exits.
This prevents tracees from being left running after the tracer exits, as they
will not be detached on cleanup.  is not compatible with options.
-e trace=syscall_set -e t=syscall_set --trace=syscall_set Traces only the
specified set of system calls.	is defined as [!]value[,value], and can be one
of the following: Traces specific system call, specified by its name (see for
a reference, but also see A question mark preceding the qualification
suppresses errors if no matching system calls are found.  Limits the system
call specification described by to the 64-bit personality.  Limits the system
call specification described by to the 32-bit personality.  Limits the system
call specification described by to the x32 personality.	 Traces all system
calls.	Traces only those system calls that match the You can use Extended
Regular Expression syntax (see Traces all system calls that take a file name
as an argument.	 You can think of this as an abbreviation for which is useful
to seeing what files the process is referencing.  Furthermore, using the
abbreviation will ensure that you don't accidentally forget to include a call
like in the list.  The syntax without a preceding percent sign is deprecated.
Traces system calls associated with process lifecycle (creation, exec,
termination).  The syntax without a preceding percent sign is deprecated.
Traces all the network related system calls.  The syntax without a preceding
percent sign is deprecated.  Traces all signal related system calls.  The
syntax without a preceding percent sign is deprecated.	Traces all IPC related
system calls.  The syntax without a preceding percent sign is deprecated.
Traces all file descriptor related system calls.  The syntax without a
preceding percent sign is deprecated.  Traces all memory mapping related
system calls.  The syntax without a preceding percent sign is deprecated.
Traces system calls that read or modify user and group identifiers or
capability sets.  Traces stat system call variants.  Traces lstat system call
variants.  Traces fstat, fstatat, and statx system call variants.  Traces
system calls used for requesting file status (stat, lstat, fstat, fstatat,
statx, and their variants).  Traces statfs, statfs64, statvfs, osf_statfs, and
osf_statfs64 system calls.  The same effect can be achieved with regular
expression.  Traces fstatfs, fstatfs64, fstatvfs, osf_fstatfs, and
osf_fstatfs64 system calls.  The same effect can be achieved with regular
expression.  Traces system calls related to file system statistics (statfs-
like, fstatfs-like, and ustat).	 The same effect can be achieved with regular
expression.  Traces system calls that read or modify system clocks.  Traces
system calls that always succeed and have no arguments.	 Currently, this list
includes (on architectures other than x86), system calls.  The option is
useful for determining which system calls might be useful to trace.  For
example, means to only trace those four system calls.  Be careful when making
inferences about the user/kernel boundary if only a subset of system calls are
being monitored.  The default is -e trace-fd=set -e trace-fds=set -e fd=set
-e fds=set --trace-fds=set Traces only the system calls that operate on the
specified subset of (non-negative) file descriptors.  Note that usage of this
option also filters out all the system calls that do not operate on file
descriptors at all.  This filter is combined with the filter; a system call is
traced if it matches either of them.  -e signal=set -e signals=set -e s=set
--signal=set Traces only the specified subset of signals.  The default is For
example, (or causes signals not to be traced.  -e status=set --status=set
Prints only system calls with the specified return status.  The default is
When using the qualifier, the chronological order of events may not be
preserved.  This is because must wait for a system call to complete before
deciding whether to print it.  If two system calls are executed by concurrent
threads, will first print both the entry and exit of the first system call to
exit, regardless of their respective entry time.  The entry and exit of the
second system call to exit will be printed afterwards.	Here is an example
when is called, but a different thread calls before finishes:

[pid 28779] 1130322148.939977 clock_gettime(CLOCK_REALTIME, {1130322148, 939977000}) = 0
[pid 28772] 1130322148.438139 select(4, [3], NULL, NULL, NULL) = 1 (in [3])

can include the following elements: Traces system calls that returned without
an error code.	The option has the effect of Traces system calls that returned
with an error code.  The option has the effect of Traces system calls that did
not return.  This might happen, for example, due to an execve call in a
different thread from the same thread group.  Traces system calls that
returned but strace failed to fetch the error status.  Traces system calls for
which strace detached before the return.  Traces only system calls accessing
Multiple options can be used to specify several paths.	This filter is
combined with the filter; a system call is traced if it matches either option.
Prints only system calls that returned without an error code.  Prints only
system calls that returned with an error code.	Aligns return values in a
specific column (default column 40).  -e abbrev=syscall_set -e a=syscall_set
--abbrev=syscall_set Abbreviates the output from printing each member of large
structures.  The syntax of the specification is the same as in the option.
The default is The option has the effect of -e verbose=syscall_set
-e v=syscall_set --verbose=syscall_set Dereferences structures for the
specified set of system calls.	The syntax of the specification is the same as
in the option.	The default is -e raw=syscall_set -e x=syscall_set
--raw=syscall_set Prints raw, undecoded arguments for the specified set of
system calls.  The syntax of the specification is the same as in the option.
This option has the effect of causing all arguments to be printed in
hexadecimal.  This option is useful if the decoding is not trusted, or if the
actual numeric value of an argument is needed.	See also option.  -e read=set
-e reads=set -e r=set --read=set Performs a full hexadecimal and ASCII dump of
all the data read from file descriptors listed in the specified set.  For
example, to see all input activity on file descriptors and use --read=3,5.
Note that this is independent from the normal tracing of the system call that
is controlled by the option -e write=set -e writes=set -e w=set --write=set
Performs a full hexadecimal and ASCII dump of all the data written to file
descriptors listed in the specified set.  For example, to see all output
activity on file descriptors and use --write=3,5.  Note that this is
independent from the normal tracing of the system call that is controlled by
the option -e quiet=set -e silent=set -e silence=set -e q=set --quiet=set
--silent=set --silence=set Suppresses various information messages.  The
default is can include the following elements: Suppresses messages about
attaching and detaching Suppress messages about process exits Suppress
messages about resolution of paths provided via the option Suppress messages
about process personality changes Suppress messages about process being
superseded by in another thread -e decode-fds=set --decode-fds=set Decodes
various information associated with file descriptors.  The default is can
include the following elements: Prints file paths.  Also enables printing of
tracee's current working directory when constant is used.  Prints socket
protocol-specific information.	Prints character/block device numbers.	Prints
eventfd object details associated with eventfd file descriptors.  Prints PIDs
associated with pidfd file descriptors.	 Prints signal masks associated with
signalfd file descriptors.  -e decode-pids=set --decode-pids=set Decodes
various information associated with process IDs (and also thread IDs, process
group IDs, and session IDs).  The default is can include the following
elements: Prints command names associated with thread or process IDs.  Prints
thread, process, process group, and session IDs in strace's PID namespace if
the tracee is in a different PID namespace.  Prints the exit reason of kvm
vcpu (=vcpu), or prints the whole kvm_run struct including the reason
(=vcpu+).  Requires Linux kernel version 4.16.0 or higher.  The vcpu+ output
uses prefixes VCPU:CPU#< and VCPU:CPU#>.  Lines starting with the former
indicate the state of the structure before calling KVM_RUN, and those starting
with the latter show the state after calling KVM_RUN.  Prints the new
namespaces entered by the tracee.  The following system calls are supported:
and Prints the instruction pointer at the time of the system call.  Prints the
system call number.  Prints the system call argument names.  Prints the
execution stack trace of the traced processes after each system call.  Prints
the execution stack trace and source code information of the traced processes
after each system call.	 This option expects the target program is compiled
with appropriate debug options: "-g" (gcc), or "-g -gdwarf-aranges" (clang).
Prints no more than this amount of stack trace frames when backtracing a
system call (the default is 256).  Use this option with the (or option.
Writes the trace output to the file rather than to stderr.  form is used if
option is supplied.  If the argument begins with '|' or '!', the rest of the
argument is treated as a command and all output is piped to it.	 This is
convenient for piping the debugging output to a program without affecting the
redirections of executed programs.  Piping output to a command is not
currently compatible with the option.  Opens the file provided in the option
in append mode.	 Suppresses messages about attaching, detaching, and
personality changes.  This happens automatically when output is redirected to
a file and the command is run directly instead of attaching.  Suppresses
messages about attaching, detaching, personality changes, and process exit
status.	 Suppresses all suppressible messages (please refer to the option
description for the full list of suppressible messages).  Prints a relative
timestamp upon entry to each system call.  This records the time difference
between the beginning of successive system calls.  can be one of
(nanoseconds), and allows setting the precision of time value being printed.
Default is (microseconds).  Note that because the option uses the monotonic
clock, its measurements may differ from the time differences reported by the
option, which uses the wall clock.  Specifies the maximum string size to print
(the default is 32).  Note that filenames are not considered strings and are
always printed in full.	 Prefixes each line of the trace with the wall clock
time in the specified with the specified can be one of the following: No time
stamp is printed.  Can be used to override the previous setting.  Wall clock
time format string is Number of seconds since the epoch format string is can
be one of (nanoseconds).  Default arguments for the option are Prefixes each
line of the trace with the wall clock time.  Prints the wall clock time with
microsecond precision.	Prints the wall clock time as seconds since the epoch,
with microsecond precision.  Shows the time spent in system calls.  This
records the time difference between the beginning and the end of each system
call.  can be one of (nanoseconds), and allows setting the precision of time
value being printed.  Default is (microseconds).  Prints unabbreviated
versions of environment, stat, termios, etc. calls.  These structures are very
common, so the default behavior is to display a reasonable subset of their
members.  Use this option to see all members in full detail.  Controls the use
of hexadecimal escape sequences when printing strings.	This option alters the
default escaping behavior.  Normally (when neither this option nor -x is
used), introduces escape sequences in two situations: to represent non-
printable and non-ASCII characters (i.e., those with character codes less than
32 or greater than 127), or to disambiguate output, for example, by escaping
the quotation marks that enclose a string or the angle brackets used in file
descriptor paths.  When a character must be escaped, prioritizes symbolic C-
standard sequences if one exists: “\t” (tab), “\n” (newline), “\v” (vertical
tab), “\f” (form feed), and “\r” (carriage return).  For all other characters
that require escaping, defaults to using an octal representation of the
character's byte value.	 This option allows you to override this default
behavior and use hexadecimal escapes instead of octal ones.  can be one of the
following: Hexadecimal numbers are not used in the output at all.  When there
is a need to emit an escape sequence, octal numbers are used.  Hexadecimal
numbers are used instead of octal in the escape sequences.  Strings that
contain non-ASCII characters are printed using escape sequences with
hexadecimal numbers.  All strings are printed using escape sequences with
hexadecimal numbers.  When the option is supplied without an argument, is
assumed.  Prints all non-ASCII strings in hexadecimal string format.  Prints
all strings in hexadecimal string format.  Sets the format for printing of
named constants and flags.  Supported values are: Raw number output, without
decoding.  Outputs a named constant or a set of flags instead of the raw
number if they are found.  This is the default behaviour.  Outputs both the
raw value and the decoded string (as a comment).  Prints paths associated with
file descriptor arguments and with the constant.  Prints all available
information associated with file descriptors: protocol-specific information
associated with socket file descriptors, block/character device number
associated with device file descriptors, and PIDs associated with pidfd file
descriptors.  If strace and tracee are in different PID namespaces, print PIDs
in strace's namespace, too.  Prints command names for PIDs.  When SELinux is
available and is not disabled, prints in square brackets SELinux contexts of
processes, files, and descriptors.  The argument is a comma-separated list of
items being one of the following: Prints the full context (user, role, type
level and category).  Also prints the context recorded by the SELinux database
in case the current context differs.  The latter is printed after two
exclamation marks (!!).	 The default value for is that prints only the type
instead of full context and doesn't check for context mismatches.  Shows PID
prefix also for the process started by strace.	Implied when -f and -o are
both specified.	 Counts time, calls, and errors for each system call and
report a summary on program exit, suppressing the regular output.  This shows
system time (CPU time spent in the kernel), which is independent of wall clock
time.  If is used with only aggregate totals for all traced processes are
kept.  Like but also prints the regular output while processes are running.
Sets the overhead for tracing system calls to This is useful for overriding
the default heuristic, which estimates the time spent in the measurement
process itself when timing system calls with the option.  The accuracy of the
heuristic can be gauged by timing a given program run without tracing (using
and comparing the accumulated system call time to the total produced using The
format of specification is described in section Sorts the output of the
histogram printed by the option by the specified criterion.  Valid values are
and default is Configures the set and order of columns shown in the call
summary.  The argument is a comma-separated list containing one or more of the
following values: Percentage of cumulative time consumed by a specific system
call.  Total system (or wall clock, if option is provided) time consumed by a
specific system call.  Minimum observed call duration.	Maximum observed call
duration.  Average call duration.  Call count.	Error count.  System call
name.  The default value is If the field is not supplied explicitly, it is
added as the last column.  Summarizes the wall clock time for each system
call, measured from its beginning to its end.  The default is to summarize the
system time.
--inject=syscall_set[:error=errno|:retval=value][:signal=sig][:syscall=syscall][:delay_enter=delay][:delay_exit=delay][:poke_enter=@argN=DATAN,@argM=DATAM...][:poke_exit=@argN=DATAN,@argM=DATAM...][:when=expr]
Performs system call tampering for the specified set of system calls.  The
syntax of the specification is the same as in the option.  At least one of or
action options must be specified.  and are mutually exclusive.	If the
error=errno option is specified, a fault is injected into the system call.
This is achieved by replacing the system call number with -1 (representing an
invalid system call) and setting the error code to the specified This behavior
of replacing the syscall number with -1 can be overridden using the option.
The can be a symbolic name like or a numeric value in the range 1..4095.  If
the retval=value option is specified, a success value is injected.  The system
call number is replaced as with the option, but instead of an error, the
specified success is returned to the caller process.  If the signal=sig option
is specified with either a symbolic value like or a numeric value within
1..SIGRTMAX range, that signal is delivered on entering every system call
specified by the If the delay_enter=delay or delay_exit=delay options are
specified, delay injection is performed: the tracee is delayed by time period
specified by on entering or exiting the system call, respectively.  The format
of specification is described in section If the
poke_enter=@argN=DATAN,@argM=DATAM... or poke_exit=@argN=DATAN,@argM=DATAM...
options are specified, tracee's memory at locations, pointed to by system call
arguments and (going from to is overwritten by data and (specified in
hexadecimal format; for example poke_enter=@arg1=0000DEAD0000BEEF).  The
poke_enter option modifies memory on system call enter, while poke_exit does
so on system call exit.	 The injection actions are independent.	 For example,
specifying only delivers a signal without altering the system call's outcome
or delaying it.	 Similarly, specifying only injects a system call fault
without adding a signal or delay.  If the signal=sig option is specified
together with error=errno or retval=value, then both injection of a fault or
success and signal delivery are performed.  If the syscall=syscall option is
specified, the given is injected instead of the default -1.  The specified
must have no side effects; currently, only system calls from the set are
supported.  Unless the when=expr subexpression is specified, an injection is
being made into every invocation of each system call from the The format of
the subexpression is: first[..last][+[step]] Number stands for the first
invocation number in the range, number stands for the last invocation number
in the range, and stands for the step between two consecutive invocations.
The following combinations are useful: Injects into invocation number only for
each system call in the first..last Injects into invocations from through
(inclusive) for each system call in the first+ Injects into every invocation,
starting with number for each system call in the first+step Injects into
invocations number and so on, for each system call in the first..last+step
Same as the previous, but consider only invocations with numbers up to
(inclusive).  For example, to fail each third and subsequent chdir system
calls with use --inject=chdir:error=ENOENT:when=3+.  The valid range for
numbers and is 1..65535, and for number is 1..65534.  An injection expression
can contain at most one fault or return value specification (i.e., either or
and at most one specification.	If an injection expression contains multiple
specifications, the last one takes precedence.	Accounting of system calls
that are subject to injection is done per system call and per tracee.
Specification of system call injection can be combined with other system call
filtering options, for example, -P /dev/urandom --inject=file:error=ENOENT.
-e inject=args This is equivalent to --inject=args.
--fault=syscall_set[:error=errno][:when=expr] Performs system call fault
injection for the specified set of system calls.  This is a shortcut for the
more general option, using a default of -e fault=args This is equivalent to
--fault=args.  Shows some debugging output of itself on the standard error.
This option is deprecated.  It is retained for backward compatibility only and
may be removed in future releases.  Using multiple options is equivalent to a
single This option is ignored entirely if used in conjunction with one or more
options.  Prints the help summary.  Attempts to use seccomp-bpf (see to cause
the kernel to stop the tracee only for the system calls that are being traced.
This option has no effect unless is also specified.  is not compatible with
and options.  It is also not applicable to processes attached using option.
An attempt to enable system calls filtering using seccomp-bpf may fail for
various reasons, e.g. there are too many system calls to filter, the seccomp
API is not available, or itself is being traced.  If the seccomp-bpf filter
setup fails, proceeds as usual, stopping traced processes on every system
call.  When is activated and option is not used, option is activated as well.
Note that in cases when the tracee has another seccomp filter that returns an
action value with a precedence greater than will not be notified.  That is, if
another seccomp filter, for example, disables the system call or kills the
tracee, then will not be aware of that system call invocation at all.  Shows
strace tips, tricks, and tweaks before exit.  The can be a non-negative
integer to print a specific tip (note: these IDs are not guaranteed to be
stable).  It can also be (the default), in which case a random tip is printed.
can be one of the following: No tip is printed.	 Can be used to override the
previous setting.  Prints the tip just big enough to contain all the text.
Prints the tip in its full glory.  Default is Prints the version number of and
the list of enabled optional features.	Multiple instances of this option
beyond specific threshold tend to increase der Strauss awareness.  Time values
are specified as a decimal floating point number (in a format accepted by
optionally followed by a suffix to indicate the unit of time: (seconds),
(milliseconds), (microseconds), or (nanoseconds).  If no suffix is specified,
the value defaults to microseconds.  The described format is used for options.
When exits, exits with the same exit status.  If is terminated by a signal,
terminates itself with the same signal, so that can be used as a wrapper
process transparent to the invoking parent process.  Note that the parent-
child relationship (signal stop notifications, the value, etc) between the
traced process and its parent is not preserved unless is used.	When using
without a the exit status of is zero unless no processes have been attached or
an unexpected error occurred during tracing.  If is installed setuid to root,
then the invoking user will be able to attach to and trace processes owned by
any user.  In addition, setuid and setgid programs will be executed and traced
with the correct effective privileges.	Since these capabilities should only
be granted to users with full root privileges, installing as setuid to root is
only appropriate when its use is restricted to such trusted users.  For
example, a special version of could be installed with mode 'rwsr-x---', user
and group In this configuration, only trusted users who are members of the
group could execute it.	 If you use this feature, remember to also install a
regular, non-setuid version of for ordinary users.  On some architectures, can
decode system calls for processes that use a different Application Binary
Interface (ABI) from the one uses.  Specifically, in addition to decoding
native ABI, can decode the following ABIs on the following architectures:
┌───────────────────┬─────────────────────────┐
│Architecture	    │ ABIs supported	      │
├───────────────────┼─────────────────────────┤
│x86_64		    │ i386, x32 [1]; i386 [2] │
├───────────────────┼─────────────────────────┤
│AArch64	    │ ARM 32-bit EABI	      │
├───────────────────┼─────────────────────────┤
│PowerPC 64-bit [3] │ PowerPC 32-bit	      │
├───────────────────┼─────────────────────────┤
│s390x		    │ s390		      │
├───────────────────┼─────────────────────────┤
│SPARC 64-bit	    │ SPARC 32-bit	      │
├───────────────────┼─────────────────────────┤
│TILE 64-bit	    │ TILE 32-bit	      │
└───────────────────┴─────────────────────────┘
[1] When is built as an x86_64 application [2] When is built as an x32
application [3] Big endian only This support is optional and depends on the
ability to generate and parse structure definitions at build time.  Refer to
the output of the command to determine which ABIs are supported by your build.
In this context, "non-native" refers to an ABI that differs from the one is
using: can trace and properly decode non-native 32-bit binaries.  can trace,
but cannot properly decode non-native 32-bit binaries.	can trace and properly
decode non-native 32-on-64-bit binaries.  can trace, but cannot properly
decode non-native 32-on-64-bit binaries.  If the output contains neither nor
it means that support for decoding non-native 32-bit binaries is not
applicable to the architecture.	 Likewise, if the output contains neither nor
it means that support for decoding non-native 32-on-64-bit binaries is not
applicable to the architecture.	 Systems that use shared libraries often
produce a large amount of tracing output when loading them.  It is instructive
to think about system call inputs and outputs as data-flow across the
user/kernel boundary.  Because user-space and kernel-space are separate and
address-protected, it is sometimes possible to make deductive inferences about
process behavior using inputs and outputs as propositions.  In some cases, a
system call will differ from the documented behavior or have a different name.
For example, the underlying system call does not have a argument, and the
library function is implemented using system call on modern (2.6.38+) kernels.
These discrepancies are normal characteristics of the system call interface
and are handled by C library wrapper functions.	 Some system calls have
different names in different architectures and personalities.  In these cases,
system call filtering and printing uses the names that match corresponding
kernel macros of the tracee's architecture and personality.  There are two
exceptions from this general rule: ARM system call and Xtensa system call are
filtered and printed as On the x32 ABI, some system calls are intended for
64-bit processes but can be invoked from x32 by setting the flag.  When this
occurs, designates these calls with a suffix.  An example is which is syscall
number 19 on x86_64, whereas its distinct x32 counterpart is syscall number
515.  On some platforms, a process attached with the option may receive a
spurious error from a non-restartable system call.  This can have an
unpredictable effect on the process if it does not attempt to restart the
call.  Ideally, all system calls should be restarted on attach, making the
attach invisible to the traced process, but a few system calls aren't.
Arguably, every instance of such behavior is a kernel bug.  Since executes the
specified directly without a shell, scripts that lack a shebang line (e.g.,
#!/bin/sh) will fail with an error, even if a shell could run them correctly.
It is advisable to manually supply a shell as a with the script as its
argument.  Programs that use the bit do not have effective user privileges
while being traced.  A traced process runs more slowly than a non-traced one.
The performance impact can be mitigated by using the option.  When tracing a
its descendant processes may be left running after is terminated by an
interrupt signal (such as This can be prevented by using the option, or by
using option in a way that implies A traced process can use the flag with the
system call to create a child process that is not traced by strace.  This
breaks a guarantee of the option, as this untraced child may be left with an
active seccomp filter after strace terminates.	The original was written by
Paul Kranenburg for SunOS and was inspired by its utility.  The SunOS version
of was ported to Linux and enhanced by Branko Lankester, who also wrote the
Linux kernel support.  Even though Paul released 2.5 in 1992, Branko's work
was based on Paul's 1.5 release from 1991.  In 1993, Rick Sladkey took on the
project.  He merged 2.5 for SunOS with the second release of for Linux, added
many features from SVR4's and produced a version of that worked on both
platforms.  In 1994 Rick ported to SVR4 and Solaris and wrote the automatic
configuration support.	In 1995 he ported to Irix (and became tired of writing
about himself in the third person).  Beginning with 1996, was maintained by
Wichert Akkerman.  During his tenure, development migrated to CVS; ports to
FreeBSD and many architectures on Linux (including ARM, IA-64, MIPS, PA-RISC,
PowerPC, s390, SPARC) were introduced.	In 2002, responsibility for
maintenance was transferred to Roland McGrath.	Since then, gained support for
several new Linux architectures (AMD64, s390x, SuperH), bi-architecture
support for some of them, and received numerous additions and improvements in
system calls decoders on Linux; development migrated to during that period.
Since 2009, has been actively maintained by Dmitry Levin.  During this period,
has gained support for the AArch64, ARC, AVR32, Blackfin, C-SKY, LoongArch,
Meta, Nios II, OpenRISC 1000, RISC-V, Tile/TileGx, and Xtensa architectures.
In 2012, unmaintained and apparently broken support for non-Linux operating
systems was removed.  Also, in 2012 gained support for path tracing and file
descriptor path decoding.  In 2014, support for stack trace printing was
added.	In 2016, system call tampering was implemented.	 For the additional
information, please refer to the file and repository commit log.  Problems
with should be reported to the mailing list Home Page The complete list of
contributors can be found in the file.


