systemd-notify - Notify service manager about start-up completion and other
daemon status changes systemd-notify [OPTIONS...] [VARIABLE=VALUE...]
systemd-notify --exec [OPTIONS...] [VARIABLE=VALUE...] ; -- {CMDLINE...}
systemd-notify --fork [OPTIONS...] -- {CMDLINE...} systemd-notify may be
called by service scripts to notify the invoking service manager about status
changes. It can be used to send arbitrary information, encoded in an
environment-block-like list of strings. Most importantly, it can be used for
start-up completion notification.  This is mostly just a wrapper around
sd_notify() and makes this functionality available to shell scripts. For
details see sd_notify(3).  The command line may carry a list of environment
variables to send as part of the status update.	 Note that systemd will refuse
reception of status updates from this command unless NotifyAccess= is
appropriately set for the service unit this command is called from. See
systemd.service(5) for details.	 Note that sd_notify() notifications may be
attributed to units correctly only if either the sending process is still
around at the time the service manager processes the message, or if the
sending process is explicitly runtime-tracked by the service manager. The
latter is the case if the service manager originally forked off the process,
i.e. on all processes that match NotifyAccess=main or NotifyAccess=exec.
Conversely, if an auxiliary process of the unit sends an sd_notify() message
and immediately exits, the service manager might not be able to properly
attribute the message to the unit, and thus will ignore it, even if
NotifyAccess=all is set for it. To address this systemd-notify will wait until
the notification message has been processed by the service manager. When
--no-block is used, this synchronization for reception of notifications is
disabled, and hence the aforementioned race may occur if the invoking process
is not the service manager or spawned by the service manager.  systemd-notify
will first attempt to invoke sd_notify() pretending to have the PID of the
parent process of systemd-notify (i.e. the invoking process). This will only
succeed when invoked with sufficient privileges. On failure, it will then fall
back to invoking it under its own PID. This behaviour is useful in order that
when the tool is invoked from a shell script the shell process — and not the
systemd-notify process — appears as sender of the message, which in turn is
helpful if the shell process is the main process of a service, due to the
limitations of NotifyAccess=all. Use the --pid= switch to tweak this
behaviour.  The following options are understood: --ready Inform the invoking
service manager about service start-up or configuration reload completion.
This is equivalent to systemd-notify READY=1. For details about the semantics
of this option see sd_notify(3).  --reloading Inform the invoking service
manager about the beginning of a configuration reload cycle. This is
equivalent to systemd-notify RELOADING=1 (but implicitly also sets a
MONOTONIC_USEC= field as required for Type=notify-reload services, see
systemd.service(5) for details). For details about the semantics of this
option see sd_notify(3).

Added in version 253.  --stopping Inform the invoking service manager about
the beginning of the shutdown phase of the service. This is equivalent to
systemd-notify STOPPING=1. For details about the semantics of this option see
sd_notify(3).

Added in version 253.  --pid= Inform the service manager about the main PID of
the service. Takes a PID as argument. If the argument is specified as "auto"
or omitted, the PID of the process that invoked systemd-notify is used, except
if that's the service manager. If the argument is specified as "self", the PID
of the systemd-notify command itself is used, and if "parent" is specified the
calling process' PID is used — even if it is the service manager.  --pid=auto
is equivalent to systemd-notify --pid=$PID. For details about the semantics of
this option see sd_notify(3).

systemd-notify will first attempt to invoke sd_notify() pretending to have the
PID specified with --pid=. This will only succeed when invoked with sufficient
privileges. On failure, it will then fall back to invoking it under its own
PID. Effectively, this means that a privileged invocation of systemd-notify
--pid= may circumvent NotifyAccess=main or NotifyAccess=exec restrictions
enforced for a service.

If this switch is used in an unprivileged systemd-notify invocation from a
process that shall become the new main process of a service — and which is not
the process forked off by the service manager (or the current main process) —,
then it is essential to set NotifyAccess=all in the service unit file, or
otherwise the notification will be ignored for security reasons. See
systemd.service(5) for details.	 --uid=USER Set the user ID to send the
notification from. Takes a UNIX user name or numeric UID. When specified the
notification message will be sent with the specified UID as sender, in place
of the user the command was invoked as. This option requires sufficient
privileges in order to be able manipulate the user identity of the process.

Added in version 237.  --status= Send a free-form human-readable status string
for the daemon to the service manager. This option takes the status string as
argument. This is equivalent to systemd-notify STATUS=.... For details about
the semantics of this option see sd_notify(3). This information is shown in
systemctl(1)'s status output, among other places.  --booted Returns 0 if the
system was booted up with systemd, non-zero otherwise. If this option is
passed, no message is sent. This option is hence unrelated to the other
options. For details about the semantics of this option, see sd_booted(3). An
alternate way to check for this state is to call systemctl(1) with the
is-system-running command. It will return "offline" if the system was not
booted with systemd.  --no-block Do not synchronously wait for the requested
operation to finish. Use of this option is only recommended when
systemd-notify is spawned by the service manager, or when the invoking process
is directly spawned by the service manager and has enough privileges to allow
systemd-notify to send the notification on its behalf. Sending notifications
with this option set is prone to race conditions in all other cases.

Added in version 246.  --exec If specified systemd-notify will execute another
command line after it completed its operation, replacing its own process. If
used, the list of assignments to include in the message sent must be followed
by a ";" character (as separate argument), followed by the command line to
execute. This permits "chaining" of commands, i.e. issuing one operation,
followed immediately by another, without changing PIDs.

Note that many shells interpret ";" as their own separator for command lines,
hence when systemd-notify is invoked from a shell the semicolon must usually
be escaped as "\;".

Added in version 254.  --fd= Send a file descriptor along with the
notification message. This is useful when invoked in services that have the
FileDescriptorStoreMax= setting enabled, see systemd.service(5) for details.
The specified file descriptor must be passed to systemd-notify when invoked.
This option may be used multiple times to pass multiple file descriptors in a
single notification message.

To use this functionality from a bash(1) shell, use an expression like the
following:

systemd-notify --fd=4 --fd=5 4</some/file 5</some/other/file

Added in version 254.  --fdname= Set a name to assign to the file descriptors
passed via --fd= (see above). This controls the "FDNAME=" field. This setting
may only be specified once, and applies to all file descriptors passed. Invoke
this tool multiple times in case multiple file descriptors with different file
descriptor names shall be submitted.

Added in version 254.  --fork Instead of sending a notification message, fork
off a command line and wait until a "READY=1" message is received from it. In
other words: this makes systemd-notify the receiver of notification messages
instead of the sender, swapping roles. This is useful to quickly fork off a
process that implements the sd_notify() protocol from a shell script. The
invoked command line will have standard input and standard output connected to
/dev/null, but standard error will be inherited from the invoking process. The
numeric process ID is written to standard output by systemd-notify (unless
--quiet is specified), which may be used to later terminate the forked off
process.

Note that processes forked off like this will likely remain running after
systemd-notify already returned, which hence will result in them being
reparented to the closest process reaper process, i.e. typically the per-user
or system service manager.

Note that this option should not be used to invoke full services ad-hoc, use
systemd-run for that.

Also note that when invoked with this switch systemd-notify will exit
successfully under two distinction conditions:

 1. systemd-notify received a "READY=1" notification from the child it just
forked off.

 2. The child process exited cleanly (with exit status zero) before sending
"READY=1".

Example use:

# PID=$(systemd-notify --fork -- mycommand)
...
kill "$PID"
unset PID

Added in version 258.  --quiet, -q Turn off output of the numeric process ID
when --fork is used.

Added in version 258.  -h, --help Print a short help text and exit.  --version
Print a short version string and exit.	On success, 0 is returned, a non-zero
failure code otherwise.	 Example 1. Start-up Notification and Status Updates A
simple shell daemon that sends start-up notifications after having set up its
communication channel. During runtime it sends further status updates to the
init system:

#!/bin/sh

mkfifo /tmp/waldo
systemd-notify --ready --status="Waiting for data..."

while : ; do
	read -r a < /tmp/waldo
	systemd-notify --status="Processing $a"

	# Do something with $a ...

	systemd-notify --status="Waiting for data..."
done
systemd(1), systemctl(1), systemd.unit(5), systemd.service(5), sd_notify(3),
sd_booted(3)


