systemd-ask-password - Query the user for a system password
systemd-ask-password [OPTIONS...] [MESSAGE] systemd-ask-password may be used
to query a password or passphrase interactively from the user, using a
question prompt specified on the command line. When run from a TTY it will
query a password on the TTY and print it to standard output. When run with no
TTY or with --no-tty it will use a system-wide or per-user agent-based query
mechanism, which allows active users to respond via several agents, listed
below.	The purpose of this tool is to query system-wide or per-user passwords
— the former includes passwords possibly not associated to a specific user
account. Examples include: unlocking encrypted hard disks when they are
plugged in or at boot, entering an SSL certificate passphrase for web and VPN
servers.  Existing system-level agents are:

•   A boot-time password agent asking the user for passwords using
plymouth(8),

•   A boot-time password agent querying the user directly on the console —
systemd-ask-password-console.service(8),

•   An agent requesting password input via a wall(1) message — systemd-ask-
password-wall.service(8),

•   A TTY agent that is temporarily spawned during systemctl(1) invocations,

•   A command line agent which can be started temporarily to process queued
password requests — systemd-tty-ask-password-agent --query.  Answering
system-wide password queries is a privileged operation, hence all the agents
listed above (except for the last one), run as privileged system services. The
last one also needs elevated privileges, so should be run through run0(1) or
similar.  Additional password agents may be implemented according to the
systemd Password Agent Specification[1].  If a password is queried on a TTY,
the user may press TAB to hide the asterisks normally shown for each character
typed. Pressing Backspace as first key achieves the same effect.  The
following options are understood: --icon= Specify an icon name alongside the
password query, which may be used in all agents supporting graphical display.
The icon name should follow the XDG Icon Naming Specification[2].  --id=
Specify an identifier for this password query. This identifier is freely
choosable and allows recognition of queries by involved agents. It should
include the subsystem doing the query and the specific object the query is
done for. Example: "--id=cryptsetup:/dev/sda5".

Added in version 227.  --keyname= Configure a kernel keyring key name to use
as cache for the password. If set, then the tool will try to push any
collected passwords into the kernel keyring of the root user, as a key of the
specified name. If combined with --accept-cached, it will also try to retrieve
such cached passwords from the key in the kernel keyring instead of querying
the user right away. By using this option, the kernel keyring may be used as
effective cache to avoid repeatedly asking users for passwords, if there are
multiple objects that may be unlocked with the same password. The cached key
will have a timeout of 2.5min set, after which it will be purged from the
kernel keyring. Note that it is possible to cache multiple passwords under the
same keyname, in which case they will be stored as NUL-separated list of
passwords. Use keyctl(1) to access the cached key via the kernel keyring
directly. Example: "--keyname=cryptsetup"

Added in version 227.  --credential= Configure a credential to read the
password from – if it exists. This may be used in conjunction with the
ImportCredential=, LoadCredential= and SetCredential= settings in unit files.
See systemd.exec(5) for details. If not specified, defaults to "password".
This option has no effect if no credentials directory is passed to the program
(i.e.  $CREDENTIALS_DIRECTORY is not set) or if the no credential of the
specified name exists.

Added in version 249.  --timeout= Specify the query timeout in seconds.
Defaults to 90s. A timeout of 0 waits indefinitely.  --echo=yes|no|masked
Controls whether to echo user input. Takes a boolean or the special string
"masked", the default being the latter. If enabled the typed characters are
echoed literally, which is useful for prompting for usernames and other
non-protected data. If disabled the typed characters are not echoed in any
form, the user will not get feedback on their input. If set to "masked", an
asterisk ("*") is echoed for each character typed. In this mode, if the user
hits the tabulator key ("↹"), echo is turned off. (Alternatively, if the user
hits the backspace key ("⌫") while no data has been entered otherwise, echo is
turned off, too).

Added in version 249.  --echo, -e Equivalent to --echo=yes, see above.

Added in version 217.  --emoji=yes|no|auto Controls whether or not to prefix
the query with a lock and key emoji (🔐), if the TTY settings permit this. The
default is "auto", which defaults to "yes", unless --echo=yes is given.

Added in version 249.  --no-tty Never ask for password on current TTY even if
one is available. Always use agent system.  --accept-cached If passed, accept
cached passwords, i.e. passwords previously entered.  --multiple When used in
conjunction with --accept-cached accept multiple passwords. This will output
one password per line.	--no-output Do not print passwords to standard output.
This is useful if you want to store a password in kernel keyring with
--keyname= but do not want it to show up on screen or in logs.

Added in version 230.  -n By default, when the acquired password is written to
standard output it is suffixed by a newline character. This may be turned off
with the -n switch, similarly to the switch of the same name of the echo(1)
command.

Added in version 249.  --user, --system Controls whether to query the
system-wide or the per-user password agents. By default if invoked privileged
the system-wide agents are queried, otherwise the per-user ones. These options
allow one to override this automatic behaviour.

Added in version 257.  -h, --help Print a short help text and exit.  On
success, 0 is returned, a non-zero failure code otherwise.  systemd(1),
systemd-ask-password-console.service(8), systemd-tty-ask-password-agent(1),
keyctl(1), plymouth(8), wall(1) systemd Password Agent Specification
https://systemd.io/PASSWORD_AGENTS/ XDG Icon Naming Specification
https://standards.freedesktop.org/icon-naming-spec/icon-naming-spec-
latest.html


