systemd-firstboot, systemd-firstboot.service - Initialize basic system
settings on or before the first boot-up of a system systemd-firstboot
[OPTIONS...]  systemd-firstboot.service The systemd-firstboot.service unit is
one of the units which are used to initialize the machine configuration during
"First Boot", i.e. when the system is freshly installed or after a factory
reset. The systemd(1) manager itself will initialize machine-id(5) and preset
all units, enabling or disabling them according to the systemd.preset(5)
settings.  systemd-firstboot.service is started later to interactively
initialize basic system configuration. It is started only if
ConditionFirstBoot=yes is met, which essentially means that /etc/ is
unpopulated, see systemd.unit(5) for details. System credentials may be used
to inject configuration; those settings are not queried interactively.	The
systemd-firstboot command can also be used to non-interactively initialize an
offline system image.  The following settings may be configured:

•   The machine ID of the system

•   The system locale, more specifically the two locale variables LANG= and
LC_MESSAGES

•   The system keyboard map

•   The system time zone

•   The system hostname

•   The kernel command line used when installing kernel images

•   The root user's password and shell Each of the fields may either be
queried interactively by users, set non-interactively on the tool's command
line, or be copied from a host system that is used to set up the system image.
If a setting is already initialized, it will not be overwritten and the user
will not be prompted for the setting.  Note that this tool operates directly
on the file system and does not involve any running system services, unlike
localectl(1), timedatectl(1) or hostnamectl(1). This allows systemd-firstboot
to operate on mounted but not booted disk images and in early boot. It is not
recommended to use systemd-firstboot on the running system after it has been
set up.	 The following options are understood: --root=root Takes a directory
path as an argument. All paths will be prefixed with the given alternate root
path, including config search paths. This is useful to operate on a system
image mounted to the specified directory instead of the host system itself.

Added in version 216.  --image=path Takes a path to a disk image file or block
device node. If specified all operations are applied to file system in the
indicated disk image. This is similar to --root= but operates on file systems
stored in disk images or block devices. The disk image should either contain
just a file system or a set of file systems within a GPT partition table,
following the Discoverable Partitions Specification[1]. For further
information on supported disk images, see systemd-nspawn(1)'s switch of the
same name.

Added in version 246.  --locale=LOCALE, --locale-messages=LOCALE Sets the
system locale, more specifically the LANG= and LC_MESSAGES settings. The
argument should be a valid locale identifier, such as "de_DE.UTF-8". This
controls the locale.conf(5) configuration file.

Added in version 216.  --keymap=KEYMAP Sets the system keyboard layout. The
argument should be a valid keyboard map, such as "de-latin1". This controls
the "KEYMAP" entry in the vconsole.conf(5) configuration file.

Added in version 236.  --timezone=TIMEZONE Sets the system time zone. The
argument should be a valid time zone identifier, such as "Europe/Berlin". This
controls the localtime(5) symlink.

Added in version 216.  --hostname=HOSTNAME Sets the system hostname. The
argument should be a hostname, compatible with DNS. This controls the
hostname(5) configuration file.

Added in version 216.  --setup-machine-id Initialize the system's machine ID
to a random ID. This controls the machine-id(5) file.

This option only works in combination with --root= or --image=. On a running
system, machine-id is written by the manager with help from systemd-machine-
id-commit.service(8).

Added in version 216.  --machine-id=ID Set the system's machine ID to the
specified value. The same restrictions apply as to --setup-machine-id.

Added in version 216.  --root-password=PASSWORD, --root-password-file=PATH,
--root-password-hashed=HASHED_PASSWORD Sets the password of the system's root
user. This creates/modifies the passwd(5) and shadow(5) files. This setting
exists in three forms: --root-password= accepts the password to set directly
on the command line, --root-password-file= reads it from a file and
--root-password-hashed= accepts an already hashed password on the command
line. See shadow(5) for more information on the format of the hashed password.
Note that it is not recommended to specify plaintext passwords on the command
line, as other users might be able to see them simply by invoking ps(1).

Added in version 216.  --root-shell=SHELL Sets the shell of the system's root
user. This creates/modifies the passwd(5) file.

Added in version 246.  --kernel-command-line=CMDLINE Sets the system's kernel
command line. This controls the /etc/kernel/cmdline file which is used by
kernel-install(8).

Added in version 246.  --prompt-locale, --prompt-keymap, --prompt-timezone,
--prompt-hostname, --prompt-root-password, --prompt-root-shell Prompt the user
interactively for a specific basic setting. Note that any explicit
configuration settings specified on the command line take precedence, and the
user is not prompted for it.

Added in version 216.  --prompt Query the user for locale, keymap, timezone,
hostname, root's password, and root's shell. This is equivalent to specifying
--prompt-locale, --prompt-keymap, --prompt-timezone, --prompt-hostname,
--prompt-root-password, --prompt-root-shell in combination.

Added in version 216.  --copy-locale, --copy-keymap, --copy-timezone,
--copy-root-password, --copy-root-shell Copy a specific basic setting from the
host. This only works in combination with --root= or --image=.

Added in version 216.  --copy Copy locale, keymap, time zone, root password
and shell from the host. This is equivalent to specifying --copy-locale,
--copy-keymap, --copy-timezone, --copy-root-password, --copy-root-shell in
combination.

Added in version 216.  --force Write configuration even if the relevant files
already exist. Without this option, systemd-firstboot does not modify or
replace existing files. Note that when configuring the root account, even with
this option, systemd-firstboot only modifies the entry of the "root" user,
leaving other entries in /etc/passwd and /etc/shadow intact.

Added in version 246.  --reset If specified, all existing files that are
configured by systemd-firstboot are removed. Note that the files are removed
regardless of whether they'll be configured with a new value or not. This
operation ensures that the next boot of the image will be considered a first
boot, and systemd-firstboot will prompt again to configure each of the removed
files.

Added in version 254.  --delete-root-password Removes the password of the
system's root user, enabling login as root without a password unless the root
account is locked. Note that this is extremely insecure and hence this option
should not be used lightly.

Added in version 246.  --welcome= Takes a boolean argument. By default, when
prompting the user for configuration options a brief welcome text is shown
before the first question is asked. Pass false to this option to turn off the
welcome text.

Added in version 246.  -h, --help Print a short help text and exit.  --version
Print a short version string and exit.	systemd-firstboot supports the service
credentials logic as implemented by
ImportCredential=/LoadCredential=/SetCredential= (see systemd.exec(5) for
details). The following credentials are used when passed in:
passwd.hashed-password.root, passwd.plaintext-password.root A hashed or
plaintext version of the root password to use, in place of prompting the user.
These credentials are equivalent to the same ones defined for the systemd-
sysusers.service(8) service.

Added in version 249.  passwd.shell.root Specifies the shell binary to use for
the specified account. Equivalent to the credential of the same name defined
for the systemd-sysusers.service(8) service.

Added in version 249.  firstboot.locale, firstboot.locale-messages These
credentials specify the locale settings to set during first boot, in place of
prompting the user.

Added in version 249.  firstboot.keymap This credential specifies the keyboard
setting to set during first boot, in place of prompting the user.

Note the relationship to the vconsole.keymap credential understood by systemd-
vconsole-setup.service(8): both ultimately affect the same setting, but
firstboot.keymap is written into /etc/vconsole.conf on first boot (if not
already configured), and then read from there by systemd-vconsole-setup, while
vconsole.keymap is read on every boot, and is not persisted to disk (but any
configuration in vconsole.conf will take precedence if present).

Added in version 249.  firstboot.timezone This credential specifies the system
timezone setting to set during first boot, in place of prompting the user.

Added in version 249.  Note that by default the systemd-firstboot.service unit
file is set up to inherit the listed credentials from the service manager.
Thus, when invoking a container with an unpopulated /etc/ for the first time
it is possible to configure the root user's password to be "systemd" like
this:
# systemd-nspawn --image=... --set-credential=firstboot.locale:de_DE.UTF-8 ...
Note that these credentials are only read and applied during the first boot.
Once they are applied they remain applied for subsequent boots, and the
credentials are not considered anymore.	 On success, 0 is returned, a non-zero
failure code otherwise.	 systemd.firstboot= Takes a boolean argument, defaults
to on. If off, systemd-firstboot.service will not interactively query the user
for basic settings at first boot, even if those settings are not initialized
yet.

Added in version 233.  systemd(1), locale.conf(5), vconsole.conf(5),
localtime(5), hostname(5), machine-id(5), shadow(5), systemd-machine-id-
setup(1), localectl(1), timedatectl(1), hostnamectl(1) Discoverable Partitions
Specification https://uapi-
group.org/specifications/specs/discoverable_partitions_specification


