systemd-cgtop - Show top control groups by their resource usage systemd-cgtop
[OPTIONS...] [GROUP] systemd-cgtop shows the top control groups of the local
Linux control group hierarchy, ordered by their CPU, memory, or disk I/O load.
The display is refreshed in regular intervals (by default every 1s), similar
in style to top(1). If a control group path is specified, shows only the
services of the specified control group.  If systemd-cgtop is not connected to
a tty, no column headers are printed and the default is to only run one
iteration. The --iterations= argument, if given, is honored. This mode is
suitable for scripting.	 Resource usage is only accounted for control groups
with the appropriate controllers turned on: "memory" controller for memory
usage and "io" controller for disk I/O consumption. If resource monitoring for
these resources is required, it is recommended to add the MemoryAccounting=1
and IOAccounting=1 settings in the unit files in question. See
systemd.resource-control(5) for details.  The CPU load value can be between 0
and 100 times the number of processors the system has. For example, if the
system has 8 processors, the CPU load value is going to be between 0% and
800%. The number of processors can be found in "/proc/cpuinfo".	 To emphasize:
unless "MemoryAccounting=1" and "IOAccounting=1" are enabled for the services
in question, no resource accounting will be available for system services and
the data shown by systemd-cgtop will be incomplete.  The following options are
understood: -p, --order=path Order by control group path name.	-t,
--order=tasks Order by number of tasks/processes in the control group.	-c,
--order=cpu Order by CPU load.	-m, --order=memory Order by memory usage.  -i,
--order=io Order by disk I/O load.  -b, --batch Run in "batch" mode: do not
accept input and run until the iteration limit set with --iterations= is
exhausted or until killed. This mode could be useful for sending output from
systemd-cgtop to other programs or to a file.

Added in version 188.  -r, --raw Format byte counts (as in memory usage and
I/O metrics) and CPU time with raw numeric values rather than human-readable
numbers.

Added in version 221.  --cpu=percentage, --cpu=time Controls whether the CPU
usage is shown as percentage or time. By default, the CPU usage is shown as
percentage. This setting may also be toggled at runtime by pressing the % key.

Added in version 226.  -P Count only userspace processes instead of all tasks.
By default, all tasks are counted: each kernel thread and each userspace
thread individually. With this setting, kernel threads are excluded from the
count and each userspace process only counts as one task, regardless of how
many threads it consists of. This setting may also be toggled at runtime by
pressing the P key. This option may not be combined with -k.

Added in version 227.  -k Count only userspace processes and kernel threads
instead of all tasks. By default, all tasks are counted: each kernel thread
and each userspace thread individually. With this setting, kernel threads are
included in the count and each userspace process only counts as one task,
regardless of how many threads it consists of. This setting may also be
toggled at runtime by pressing the k key. This option may not be combined with
-P.

Added in version 226.  --recursive= Controls whether the number of processes
shown for a control group shall include all processes that are contained in
any of the child control groups as well. Takes a boolean argument, which
defaults to "yes". If enabled, the processes in child control groups are
included, if disabled, only the processes in the control group itself are
counted. This setting may also be toggled at runtime by pressing the r key.
Note that this setting only applies to process counting, i.e. when the -P or
-k options are used. It has no effect if all tasks are counted, in which case
the counting is always recursive.

Added in version 226.  -n, --iterations= Perform only this many iterations. A
value of 0 indicates that the program should run indefinitely.

Added in version 188.  -1 A shortcut for --iterations=1.

Added in version 238.  -d, --delay= Specify refresh delay in seconds (or if
one of "ms", "us", "min" is specified as unit in this time unit). This setting
may also be increased and decreased at runtime by pressing the + and - keys.
--depth= Maximum control group tree traversal depth. Specifies how deep
systemd-cgtop shall traverse the control group hierarchies. If 0 is specified,
only the root group is monitored. For 1, only the first level of control
groups is monitored, and so on. Defaults to 3.	-M MACHINE, --machine=MACHINE
Limit control groups shown to the part corresponding to the container MACHINE.
This option may not be used when a control group path is specified.

Added in version 227.  -h, --help Print a short help text and exit.  --version
Print a short version string and exit.	systemd-cgtop is an interactive tool
and may be controlled via user input using the following keys: h Shows a short
help text.  Space Immediately refresh output.

Added in version 226.  q Terminate the program.	 p, t, c, m, i Sort the
control groups by path, number of tasks, CPU load, memory usage, or I/O load,
respectively. This setting may also be controlled using the --order= command
line switch.  % Toggle between showing CPU time as time or percentage. This
setting may also be controlled using the --cpu= command line switch.

Added in version 201.  +, - Increase or decrease refresh delay, respectively.
This setting may also be controlled using the --delay= command line switch.  P
Toggle between counting all tasks, or only userspace processes. This setting
may also be controlled using the -P command line switch (see above).

Added in version 227.  k Toggle between counting all tasks, or only userspace
processes and kernel threads. This setting may also be controlled using the -k
command line switch (see above).

Added in version 226.  r Toggle between recursively including or excluding
processes in child control groups in control group process counts. This
setting may also be controlled using the --recursive= command line switch.
This key is not available if all tasks are counted, it is only available if
processes are counted, as enabled with the P or k keys.

Added in version 226.  On success, 0 is returned, a non-zero failure code
otherwise.  systemd(1), systemctl(1), systemd-cgls(1), systemd.resource-
control(5), top(1)


