systemd-tmpfiles, systemd-tmpfiles-setup.service, systemd-tmpfiles-setup-dev-
early.service, systemd-tmpfiles-setup-dev.service, systemd-tmpfiles-
clean.service, systemd-tmpfiles-clean.timer - Create, delete, and clean up
files and directories systemd-tmpfiles [OPTIONS...] [CONFIGFILE...]  System
units: systemd-tmpfiles-setup.service systemd-tmpfiles-setup-dev-early.service
systemd-tmpfiles-setup-dev.service systemd-tmpfiles-clean.service
systemd-tmpfiles-clean.timer User units: systemd-tmpfiles-setup.service
systemd-tmpfiles-clean.service systemd-tmpfiles-clean.timer systemd-tmpfiles
creates, deletes, and cleans up files and directories, using the configuration
file format and location specified in tmpfiles.d(5). Historically, it was
designed to manage volatile and temporary files, as the name suggests, but it
provides generic file management functionality and can be used to manage any
kind of files. It must be invoked with one or more commands --create,
--remove, and --clean, to select the respective subset of operations.  If
invoked with no arguments, directives from the configuration files found in
the directories specified by tmpfiles.d(5) are executed. When invoked with
positional arguments, if option --replace=PATH is specified, arguments
specified on the command line are used instead of the configuration file PATH.
Otherwise, just the configuration specified by the command line arguments is
executed. If the string "-" is specified instead of a filename, the
configuration is read from standard input. If the argument is a file name
(without any slashes), all configuration directories are searched for a
matching file and the file found that has the highest priority is executed. If
the argument is a path, that file is used directly without searching the
configuration directories for any other matching file.	System services
(systemd-tmpfiles-setup.service, systemd-tmpfiles-setup-dev-early.service,
systemd-tmpfiles-setup-dev.service, systemd-tmpfiles-clean.service) invoke
systemd-tmpfiles to create system files and to perform system wide cleanup.
Those services read administrator-controlled configuration files in
tmpfiles.d/ directories. User services (systemd-tmpfiles-setup.service,
systemd-tmpfiles-clean.service) also invoke systemd-tmpfiles, but it reads a
separate set of files, which includes user-controlled files under
~/.config/user-tmpfiles.d/ and ~/.local/share/user-tmpfiles.d/, and
administrator-controlled files under /usr/share/user-tmpfiles.d/. Users may
use this to create and clean up files under their control, but the system
instance performs global cleanup and is not influenced by user configuration.
Note that this means a time-based cleanup configured in the system instance,
such as the one typically configured for /tmp/, will thus also affect files
created by the user instance if they are placed in /tmp/, even if the user
instance's time-based cleanup is turned off.  To re-apply settings after
configuration has been modified, simply restart
systemd-tmpfiles-clean.service, which will apply any settings which can be
safely executed at runtime. To debug systemd-tmpfiles, it may be useful to
invoke it directly from the command line with increased log level (see
$SYSTEMD_LOG_LEVEL below).  The following commands are understood: --create If
this command is passed, all files and directories marked with f, F, w, d, D,
v, p, L, c, b, m in the configuration files are created or written to. Files
and directories marked with z, Z, t, T, a, and A have their ownership, access
mode and security labels set.  --clean If this command is passed, all files
and directories with an age parameter configured will be cleaned up.  --remove
If this command is passed, the contents of directories marked with D or R, and
files or directories themselves marked with r or R are removed unless an
exclusive or shared BSD lock is taken on them (see flock(2)).  --purge If this
option is passed, all files and directories declared for creation and marked
with the "$" character by the tmpfiles.d/ files specified on the command line
will be deleted. Specifically, this acts on all files and directories marked
with f, F, d, D, v, q, Q, p, L, c, b, C, w, e. If this switch is used at least
one tmpfiles.d/ file (or - for standard input) must be specified on the
command line or the invocation will be refused, for safety reasons (as
otherwise much of the installed system files might be removed).

The primary usecase for this option is to automatically remove files and
directories that originally have been created on behalf of an installed
package at package removal time.

It is recommended to first run this command in combination with --dry-run (see
below) to verify which files and directories will be deleted.

Warning! This is usually not the command you want! In most cases --remove is
what you are looking for.

Added in version 256.  --user Execute "user" configuration, i.e.  tmpfiles.d/
files in user configuration directories.

Added in version 236.  --boot Also execute lines with an exclamation mark.
Lines that are not safe to be executed on a running system may be marked in
this way.  systemd-tmpfiles is executed in early boot with --boot specified
and will execute those lines. When invoked again later, it should be called
without --boot.

Added in version 209.  --graceful Ignore configuration lines pertaining to
unknown users or groups. This option is intended to be used in early boot
before all users or groups have been created.

Added in version 254.  --dry-run Process the configuration and print what
operations would be performed, but do not actually change anything in the file
system.

Added in version 256.  --prefix=path Only apply rules with paths that start
with the specified prefix. This option can be specified multiple times.

Added in version 212.  --exclude-prefix=path Ignore rules with paths that
start with the specified prefix. This option can be specified multiple times.

Added in version 207.  -E A shortcut for "--exclude-prefix=/dev
--exclude-prefix=/proc --exclude-prefix=/run --exclude-prefix=/sys", i.e.
exclude the hierarchies typically backed by virtual or memory file systems.
This is useful in combination with --root=, if the specified directory tree
contains an OS tree without these virtual/memory file systems mounted in, as
it is typically not desirable to create any files and directories below these
subdirectories if they are supposed to be overmounted during runtime.

Added in version 247.  --root=root Takes a directory path as an argument. All
paths will be prefixed with the given alternate root path, including config
search paths.

When this option is used, the libc Name Service Switch (NSS) is bypassed for
resolving users and groups. Instead the files /etc/passwd and /etc/group
inside the alternate root are read directly. This means that users/groups not
listed in these files will not be resolved, i.e. LDAP NIS and other complex
databases are not considered.

Consider combining this with -E to ensure the invocation does not create files
or directories below mount points in the OS image operated on that are
typically overmounted during runtime.

Added in version 212.  --image=image Takes a path to a disk image file or
block device node. If specified all operations are applied to file system in
the indicated disk image. This is similar to --root= but operates on file
systems stored in disk images or block devices. The disk image should either
contain just a file system or a set of file systems within a GPT partition
table, following the Discoverable Partitions Specification[1]. For further
information on supported disk images, see systemd-nspawn(1)'s switch of the
same name.

Implies -E.

Added in version 247.  --image-policy=policy Takes an image policy string as
argument, as per systemd.image-policy(7). The policy is enforced when
operating on the disk image specified via --image=, see above. If not
specified, defaults to the "*" policy, i.e. all recognized file systems in the
image are used.	 --replace=PATH When this option is given, one or more
positional arguments must be specified. All configuration files found in the
directories listed in tmpfiles.d(5) will be read, and the configuration given
on the command line will be handled instead of and with the same priority as
the configuration file PATH.

This option is intended to be used when package installation scripts are
running and files belonging to that package are not yet available on disk, so
their contents must be given on the command line, but the admin configuration
might already exist and should be given higher priority.

Added in version 238.  --cat-config Copy the contents of config files to
standard output. Before each file, the filename is printed as a comment.
--tldr Copy the contents of config files to standard output. Only the
"interesting" parts of the configuration files are printed, comments and empty
lines are skipped. Before each file, the filename is printed as a comment.
--no-pager Do not pipe output into a pager.  -h, --help Print a short help
text and exit.	--version Print a short version string and exit.  It is
possible to combine --create, --clean, and --remove in one invocation (in
which case removal and cleanup are executed before creation of new files). For
example, during boot the following command line is executed to ensure that all
temporary and volatile directories are removed and created according to the
configuration file:

systemd-tmpfiles --remove --create
systemd-tmpfiles supports the service credentials logic as implemented by
ImportCredential=/LoadCredential=/SetCredential= (see systemd.exec(5) for
details). The following credentials are used when passed in: tmpfiles.extra
The contents of this credential may contain additional lines to operate on.
The credential contents should follow the same format as any other tmpfiles.d/
drop-in configuration file. If this credential is passed it is processed after
all of the drop-in files read from the file system. The lines in the
credential can hence augment existing lines of the OS, but not override them.

Added in version 252.  Note that by default the systemd-tmpfiles-setup.service
unit file (and related unit files) is set up to inherit the "tmpfiles.extra"
credential from the service manager.  $SYSTEMD_LOG_LEVEL The maximum log level
of emitted messages (messages with a higher log level, i.e. less important
ones, will be suppressed). Takes a comma-separated list of values. A value may
be either one of (in order of decreasing importance) emerg, alert, crit, err,
warning, notice, info, debug, or an integer in the range 0...7. See syslog(3)
for more information. Each value may optionally be prefixed with one of
console, syslog, kmsg or journal followed by a colon to set the maximum log
level for that specific log target (e.g.  SYSTEMD_LOG_LEVEL=debug,console:info
specifies to log at debug level except when logging to the console which
should be at info level). Note that the global maximum log level takes
priority over any per target maximum log levels.  $SYSTEMD_LOG_COLOR A
boolean. If true, messages written to the tty will be colored according to
priority.

This setting is only useful when messages are written directly to the
terminal, because journalctl(1) and other tools that display logs will color
messages based on the log level on their own.  $SYSTEMD_LOG_TIME A boolean. If
true, console log messages will be prefixed with a timestamp.

This setting is only useful when messages are written directly to the terminal
or a file, because journalctl(1) and other tools that display logs will attach
timestamps based on the entry metadata on their own.  $SYSTEMD_LOG_LOCATION A
boolean. If true, messages will be prefixed with a filename and line number in
the source code where the message originates.

Note that the log location is often attached as metadata to journal entries
anyway. Including it directly in the message text can nevertheless be
convenient when debugging programs.  $SYSTEMD_LOG_TARGET The destination for
log messages. One of console (log to the attached tty), console-prefixed (log
to the attached tty but with prefixes encoding the log level and "facility",
see syslog(3), kmsg (log to the kernel circular log buffer), journal (log to
the journal), journal-or-kmsg (log to the journal if available, and to kmsg
otherwise), auto (determine the appropriate log target automatically, the
default), null (disable log output).  $SYSTEMD_PAGER, $PAGER Pager to use when
--no-pager is not given.  $SYSTEMD_PAGER is used if set; otherwise $PAGER is
used. If neither $SYSTEMD_PAGER nor $PAGER are set, a set of well-known pager
implementations is tried in turn, including less(1) and more(1), until one is
found. If no pager implementation is discovered, no pager is invoked. Setting
those environment variables to an empty string or the value "cat" is
equivalent to passing --no-pager.

Note: if $SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE is not set, $SYSTEMD_PAGER and $PAGER can only
be used to disable the pager (with "cat" or ""), and are otherwise ignored.
$SYSTEMD_LESS Override the options passed to less (by default "FRSXMK").

Users might want to change two options in particular: K This option instructs
the pager to exit immediately when Ctrl+C is pressed. To allow less to handle
Ctrl+C itself to switch back to the pager command prompt, unset this option.

If the value of $SYSTEMD_LESS does not include "K", and the pager that is
invoked is less, Ctrl+C will be ignored by the executable, and needs to be
handled by the pager.  X This option instructs the pager to not send termcap
initialization and deinitialization strings to the terminal. It is set by
default to allow command output to remain visible in the terminal even after
the pager exits. Nevertheless, this prevents some pager functionality from
working, in particular paged output cannot be scrolled with the mouse.

Note that setting the regular $LESS environment variable has no effect for
less invocations by systemd tools.

See less(1) for more discussion.  $SYSTEMD_LESSCHARSET Override the charset
passed to less (by default "utf-8", if the invoking terminal is determined to
be UTF-8 compatible).

Note that setting the regular $LESSCHARSET environment variable has no effect
for less invocations by systemd tools.	$SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE Common pager
commands like less(1), in addition to "paging", i.e. scrolling through the
output, support opening of or writing to other files and running arbitrary
shell commands. When commands are invoked with elevated privileges, for
example under sudo(8) or pkexec(1), the pager becomes a security boundary.
Care must be taken that only programs with strictly limited functionality are
used as pagers, and unintended interactive features like opening or creation
of new files or starting of subprocesses are not allowed. "Secure mode" for
the pager may be enabled as described below, if the pager supports that (most
pagers are not written in a way that takes this into consideration). It is
recommended to either explicitly enable "secure mode" or to completely disable
the pager using --no-pager or PAGER=cat when allowing untrusted users to
execute commands with elevated privileges.

This option takes a boolean argument. When set to true, the "secure mode" of
the pager is enabled. In "secure mode", LESSSECURE=1 will be set when invoking
the pager, which instructs the pager to disable commands that open or create
new files or start new subprocesses. Currently only less(1) is known to
understand this variable and implement "secure mode".

When set to false, no limitation is placed on the pager. Setting
SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE=0 or not removing it from the inherited environment may
allow the user to invoke arbitrary commands.

When $SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE is not set, systemd tools attempt to automatically
figure out if "secure mode" should be enabled and whether the pager supports
it. "Secure mode" is enabled if the effective UID is not the same as the owner
of the login session, see geteuid(2) and sd_pid_get_owner_uid(3), or when
running under sudo(8) or similar tools ($SUDO_UID is set [2]). In those cases,
SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE=1 will be set and pagers which are not known to implement
"secure mode" will not be used at all. Note that this autodetection only
covers the most common mechanisms to elevate privileges and is intended as
convenience. It is recommended to explicitly set $SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE or
disable the pager.

Note that if the $SYSTEMD_PAGER or $PAGER variables are to be honoured, other
than to disable the pager, $SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE must be set too.
$SYSTEMD_COLORS Takes a boolean argument. When true, systemd and related
utilities will use colors in their output, otherwise the output will be
monochrome. Additionally, the variable can take one of the following special
values: "16", "256" to restrict the use of colors to the base 16 or 256 ANSI
colors, respectively. This can be specified to override the automatic decision
based on $TERM and what the console is connected to.  $SYSTEMD_URLIFY The
value must be a boolean. Controls whether clickable links should be generated
in the output for terminal emulators supporting this. This can be specified to
override the decision that systemd makes based on $TERM and other conditions.
systemd-tmpfiles tries to avoid changing the access and modification times on
the directories it accesses, which requires CAP_FOWNER privileges. When
running as non-root, directories which are checked for files to clean up will
have their access time bumped, which might prevent their cleanup.  On success,
0 is returned. If the configuration was syntactically invalid (syntax errors,
missing arguments, ...), so some lines had to be ignored, but no other errors
occurred, 65 is returned (EX_DATAERR from /usr/include/sysexits.h). If the
configuration was syntactically valid, but could not be executed (lack of
permissions, creation of files in missing directories, invalid contents when
writing to /sys/ values, ...), 73 is returned (EX_CANTCREAT from
/usr/include/sysexits.h). Otherwise, 1 is returned (EXIT_FAILURE from
/usr/include/stdlib.h).	 Note: when creating items, if the target already
exists, but is of the wrong type or otherwise does not match the requested
state, and forced operation has not been requested with "+", a message is
emitted, but the failure is otherwise ignored.	systemd(1), tmpfiles.d(5)
Discoverable Partitions Specification https://uapi-
group.org/specifications/specs/discoverable_partitions_specification It is
recommended for other tools to set and check $SUDO_UID as appropriate,
treating it is a common interface.



