tcpslice - extract pieces of and/or merge together pcap files [ ] [ ]
	 [ [ ] [ ] ]
	 [ [ ] ]
is a program for extracting portions of (but not files produced using flag or
many other programs.  It can also be used to merge together several such
files, as discussed below.  The basic operation of is to copy to all packets
from its input file(s) whose timestamps fall within a given range.  The
starting and ending times of the range may be specified on the command line.
All ranges are inclusive.  The starting time defaults to the earliest time of
the first packet in any of the input files; we call this the The ending time
defaults to ten years after the starting time.	Thus, the command simply
copies to stdout (assuming the file does not include more than ten years'
worth of data).	 There are a number of ways to specify times.  The first is
using Unix timestamps of the form (this is the format specified by tcpdump's
flag).	For example, specifies 38 seconds and 765,400 microseconds after
8:51PM PDT, Sept. 25, 1990.  All examples in this manual are given for PDT
times, but when displaying times and interpreting times symbolically as
discussed below, uses the local timezone, regardless of the timezone in which
the pcap file was generated.  The daylight-savings setting used is that which
is appropriate for the local timezone at the date in question.	For example,
times associated with summer months will usually include daylight-savings
effects, and those with winter months will not.	 Times may also be specified
relative to either the (when specifying a starting time) or the starting time
(when specifying an ending time) by preceding a numeric value in seconds with
a `+'.	For example, a starting time of indicates 200 seconds after the and
the two arguments indicate from 200 seconds after the through 500 seconds
after the Times may also be specified in terms of years (y), months (m), days
(d), hours (h), minutes (m), seconds (s), and microseconds(u).	For example,
the Unix timestamp discussed above could also be expressed as 2 or 4 digit
years may be used; 2 digits can specify years from 1970 to 2069.  When
specifying times using this style, fields that are omitted default as follows.
If the omitted field is a unit than that of the first specified field, then
its value defaults to the corresponding value taken from either (if the
starting time is being specified) or the starting time (if the ending time is
being specified).  If the omitted field is a unit than that of the first
specified field, then it defaults to zero (1 for days).	 For example, suppose
that the input file has a of the Unix timestamp mentioned above, i.e., 38
seconds and 765,400 microseconds after 8:51PM PDT, Sept. 25, 1990.  To specify
9:36PM PDT (exactly) on the same date we could use To specify a range from
9:36PM PDT through 1:54AM PDT the next day we could use Relative times can
also be specified when using the format.  Omitted fields then default to 0 if
the unit of the field is than that of the first specified field, and to the
corresponding value taken from either the or the starting time if the omitted
field's unit is than that of the first specified field.	 Given a of the Unix
timestamp mentioned above, specifies a range from 10:00PM PDT on that date
through 11:10PM PDT, and specifies a range from 38.7654 seconds after 9:51PM
PDT through 38.7654 seconds after 11:01PM PDT.	The first hour of the file
could be extracted using Note that with the format there is an ambiguity
between using for `month' or for `minute'.  The ambiguity is resolved as
follows: if an field is followed by a field then it is interpreted as
specifying months; otherwise it specifies minutes.  If more than one input
file is specified then merges the packets from the various input files into
the single output file.	 Normally, this merge is done based on the value of
the time stamps in the packets in the individual files.	 (Tcpslice assumes
that each input file, packets are in time stamp order.)	 If the option is
used, the value used for ordering is the time stamp of a given packet minus
the time stamp of the first packet in the input file in which the given packet
occurs.	 When merging files, by default will discard any packet it finds in
more than one file.  A duplicate is a packet that has an identical timestamp
(either relative or absolute) and identical packet contents (for as much as
was captured) as another packet previously seen in a different file.  Note
that it is possible for the network to generate true replicates of packets,
and for systems that can return the same timestamp for multiple packets, these
can be mistaken for duplicates and discarded.  Accordingly, will not discard
duplicates in the same trace file.  In addition, you can use the option to
suppress any discarding of duplicates.	will refuse to merge multiple files if
they don't have the same link-layer header type.  If any of or are specified
then reports the timestamps of the first and last packets in each input file
and exits.  Only one of these three options may be specified.  Do not discard
duplicate packets seen when merging multiple trace files.  Dump the start and
end times specified by the given range and exit.  This option is useful for
checking that the given range actually specifies the times you think it does.
If one of or has been specified then the times are dumped in the corresponding
format; otherwise, (raw format) is used.  Specify a number of to wait after
the last packet was seen before considering a session to be expired (default:
0 = do not expire inactive sessions). This is only effective when the option
is used to track sessions.  Specify the name of PCAP files to which each
session will be extracted (default: NULL = do not extract sessions to separate
files). This is only effective when the option is used to track sessions.
Print the tcpslice and libpcap version strings, print a usage message, and
exit.  When merging more than one file, merge on the basis of relative time,
rather than absolute time.  Normally, when merging files is done, packets are
merged based on absolute time stamps.  With packets are merged based on the
relative time between the start of the file in which the packet is found and
the time stamp of the packet itself.  The time stamp of packets in the output
file is calculated as the relative time for the packet within its file plus
Dump the timestamps of the first and last packets in each input file as raw
timestamps (i.e., in the form  sssssssss.uuuuuu).  Same as except the
timestamps are dumped in human-readable format, similar to that used by Enable
session tracking for the specified which is a comma-separated list of the
following: track all TCP connections track SIP-based VoIP calls, which may
enable tracking of TCP connections but only the ones that are related to SIP
calls.	This feature is only available if tcpslice was linked against Aymeric
Moizard's GNU oSIP library; if not, install the latest version of from
https://www.gnu.org/software/osip/ and recompile tcpslice.  track H.323-based
VoIP calls, which may enable tracking of TCP connections but only the ones
that are related to H.323 calls.  This feature is only available if tcpslice
was linked against Objective Systems' Open H.323 library for C; if not,
install the latest version of from https://sourceforge.net/projects/ooh323c/
and recompile tcpslice.	 Session tracking altogether is only available if
tcpslice was linked against a recent version (>1.20) of Rafal Wojtczuk's
Network Intrusion Detection System library; if not, install the latest version
of from http://libnids.sourceforge.net/ and recompile tcpslice.	 Same as
except the timestamps are dumped in format, i.e., in the format discussed
above.	Turn on verbose mode. Currently this only affects session tracking
(-s) messages: if specified at least once, sessions openings and closings are
displayed regardless of the time (by default the closings are only displayed
past if specified at least twice, subsessions (sessions initiated by other
sessions) openings and closings are also displayed.  Direct the output to
output-file rather than stdout.	 The original author was: Vern Paxson, of
Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, University of California, Berkeley, CA.  It is
currently maintained by The Tcpdump Group.  The current version is available
at: The original distribution is available via anonymous ftp: Please send
problems, bugs, questions, desirable enhancements, etc. to: tcpdump-
workers@lists.tcpdump.org Please send source code contributions as git pull
requests through the project page above.  An input filename that exactly
matches the or the format discussed above can be confused with a start/end
time (regardless if the date and the time are valid in the latter case).  Such
filenames can be specified with a leading `./'; for example, specify the file
as and as Alternatively, renaming the files to and respectively would resolve
this ambiguity.	 cannot read its input from stdin, since it uses random-access
to rummage through its input files.  cannot process an otherwise valid input
file that contains fewer than two packets.  refuses to write to its output if
it is a terminal (as indicated by This is not a bug but a feature, to prevent
it from spraying binary data to the user's terminal.  Note that this means you
must either redirect stdout or specify an output file via -w.  will not work
properly on pcap files spanning more than one year; with files containing
portions of packets whose original length was more than 65,535 bytes; nor with
files containing fewer than two packets.  Such files result in the error
message: `couldn't find final packet in file'.	These problems are due to the
interpolation scheme used by to greatly speed up its processing when dealing
with large trace files.	 Note that can efficiently extract slices from the
middle of trace files of any size, and can also work with truncated trace
files (i.e., the final packet in the file is only partially present, typically
due to tcpdump being ungracefully killed).  Adding has broken some
compatibility with older versions, since now merges its input files, rather
than (approximately) concatenating them together as it did previously.	It
would sometimes be convenient if you could specify a clock offset to use with
the option.  It would be nice if supported more general editing of trace
files.


