time - time a simple command or give resource usage The command runs the
specified program with the given arguments.  When finishes, writes a message
to standard error giving timing statistics about this program run.  These
statistics consist of (i) the elapsed real time between invocation and
termination, (ii) the user CPU time (the sum of the and values in a as
returned by and (iii) the system CPU time (the sum of the and values in a as
returned by Note: some shells (e.g., have a built-in command that provides
similar information on the usage of time and possibly other resources.	To
access the real command, you may need to specify its pathname (something like
When in the POSIX locale, use the precise traditional format "real %f\nuser
%f\nsys %f\n" (with numbers in seconds) where the number of decimals in the
output for %f is unspecified but is sufficient to express the clock tick
accuracy, and at least one.  If was invoked, the exit status is that of
Otherwise, it is 127 if could not be found, 126 if it could be found but could
not be invoked, and some other nonzero value (1–125) if something else went
wrong.	The variables and are used for the text and formatting of the output.
is used to search for Below a description of the GNU 1.7 version of
Disregarding the name of the utility, GNU makes it output lots of useful
information, not only about time used, but also on other resources like
memory, I/O and IPC calls (where available).  The output is formatted using a
format string that can be specified using the option or the environment
variable.  The default format string is: %Uuser %Ssystem %Eelapsed %PCPU
(%Xtext+%Ddata %Mmax)k %Iinputs+%Ooutputs (%Fmajor+%Rminor)pagefaults %Wswaps
When the option is given, the (portable) output format is used: real %e user
%U sys %S The format is interpreted in the usual way.  Ordinary characters are
directly copied, tab, newline, and backslash are escaped using \t, \n, and \\,
a percent sign is represented by %%, and otherwise % indicates a conversion.
The program will always add a trailing newline itself.	The conversions
follow.	 All of those used by are supported.  Elapsed real time (in
[hours:]minutes:seconds).  (Not in Elapsed real time (in seconds).  Total
number of CPU-seconds that the process spent in kernel mode.  Total number of
CPU-seconds that the process spent in user mode.  Percentage of the CPU that
this job got, computed as (%U + %S) / %E.  Maximum resident set size of the
process during its lifetime, in Kbytes.	 (Not in Average resident set size of
the process, in Kbytes.	 Average total (data+stack+text) memory use of the
process, in Kbytes.  Average size of the process's unshared data area, in
Kbytes.	 (Not in Average size of the process's unshared stack space, in
Kbytes.	 Average size of the process's shared text space, in Kbytes.  (Not in
System's page size, in bytes.  This is a per-system constant, but varies
between systems.  Number of major page faults that occurred while the process
was running.  These are faults where the page has to be read in from disk.
Number of minor, or recoverable, page faults.  These are faults for pages that
are not valid but which have not yet been claimed by other virtual pages.
Thus the data in the page is still valid but the system tables must be
updated.  Number of times the process was swapped out of main memory.  Number
of times the process was context-switched involuntarily (because the time
slice expired).	 Number of waits: times that the program was context-switched
voluntarily, for instance while waiting for an I/O operation to complete.
Number of filesystem inputs by the process.  Number of filesystem outputs by
the process.  Number of socket messages received by the process.  Number of
socket messages sent by the process.  Number of signals delivered to the
process.  (Not in Name and command-line arguments of the command being timed.
(Not in Exit status of the command.  Specify output format, possibly
overriding the format specified in the environment variable TIME.  Use the
portable output format.	 Do not send the results to but overwrite the
specified file.	 (Used together with -o.) Do not overwrite but append.	Give
very verbose output about all the program knows about.	Don't report abnormal
program termination (where is terminated by a signal) or nonzero exit status.
Print a usage message on standard output and exit successfully.	 Print version
information on standard output, then exit successfully.	 Terminate option
list.  Not all resources are measured by all versions of UNIX, so some of the
values might be reported as zero.  The present selection was mostly inspired
by the data provided by 4.2 or 4.3BSD.	GNU version 1.7 is not yet localized.
Thus, it does not implement the POSIX requirements.  The environment variable
was badly chosen.  It is not unusual for systems like or to use environment
variables with the name of a utility to override the utility to be used.  Uses
like MORE or TIME for options to programs (instead of program pathnames) tend
to lead to difficulties.  It seems unfortunate that overwrites instead of
appends.  (That is, the option should be the default.)	Mail suggestions and
bug reports for GNU to Please include the version of which you can get by
running time --version and the operating system and C compiler you used.


