tput - initialize a terminal, exercise its capabilities, or query terminfo
database tput [-v] [-T terminal-type] {cap-code [parameter ...]} ...  tput
[-v] [-T terminal-type] [-x] clear tput [-v] [-T terminal-type] init tput [-v]
[-T terminal-type] reset tput [-v] [-T terminal-type] longname tput [-v] -S
tput [-v] -V uses the library and database to make terminal-specific
capabilities and information available to the shell, to initialize or reset
the terminal, or to report a description of the current (or specified)
terminal type.	Terminal capabilities are accessed by terminfo(5) discusses
terminal capabilities at length and presents a complete list of standard When
retrieving capability values, the result depends upon the capability's type.
Boolean sets its exit status to if the terminal possesses and if it does not.
numeric writes decimal value to the standard output stream if defined if it is
not) followed by a newline.  string writes value to the standard output stream
if defined, without a trailing newline.	 Before using a value returned on the
standard output, the application should test exit status to be sure it is 0;
see section “EXIT STATUS” below.  Generally, an operand is a a capability code
from the terminal database, or a parameter thereto.  Three others are
specially recognized by and Although these resemble capability codes, they in
fact receive special handling; we term them “pseudo-capabilities”.  indicates
a capability from the terminal database.  If is of string type and takes
parameters, interprets arguments following as the parameters, up to the
(fixed) quantity the capability requires.  Most parameters are numeric.	 Only
a few terminal capabilities require string parameters; uses a table to decide
which to pass as strings.  Normally uses tparm(3X) to perform the
substitution.  If no parameters are given for the capability, writes the
string without performing the substitution.  initializes the terminal.	If the
terminal database is present and an entry for the user's terminal type exists,
the following occur.  (1) retrieves the terminal's mode settings.  It
successively tests the file descriptors corresponding to the standard error
stream, the standard output stream, the standard input stream, and to obtain
terminal settings.  Having retrieved them, remembers which descriptor to use
for further updates.  (2) If the terminal dimensions cannot be obtained from
the operating system, but the environment or terminal type database entry
describes them, updates the operating system's notion of them.	(3) updates
the terminal modes.  Any delays specified in the entry (for example, when a
newline is sent) are set in the terminal driver.  Tab expansion is turned on
or off per the specification in the entry, and if tabs are not expanded,
standard tabs (every 8 spaces) are set.	 (4) If initialization capabilities,
detailed in subsection “Tabs and Initialization” of terminfo(5), are present,
writes them to the standard output stream.  (5) flushes the standard output
stream.	 If an entry lacks the information needed for an activity above, that
activity is silently skipped.  re-initializes the terminal.  A reset differs
from initialization in two ways.  (1) sets the terminal modes to a “sane”
state, enabling canonical (“cooked”) and echo modes, disabling cbreak and raw
modes, enabling newline translation, and setting any special input characters
to their default values.  (2) If any reset capabilities are defined for the
terminal type, writes them to the output stream.  Otherwise, uses any defined
initialization capabilities.  Reset capabilities are detailed in subsection
“Tabs and Initialization” of terminfo(5).  A entry begins with one or more
names by which an application can refer to the entry, before the list of
terminal capabilities.	The names are separated by “|” characters.  X/Open
Curses terms the last name the “long name”, and indicates that it may include
blanks.	 tic warns if the last name does not include blanks, to accommodate
old entries that treated the long name as an optional feature.	The long name
is often referred to as the description field.	If the terminal database is
present and an entry for the user's terminal type exists, reports its
description to the standard output stream, without a trailing newline.	See
terminfo(5).  Redirecting the output of or to a file will capture only part of
their actions.	Changes to the terminal modes are not affected by file
descriptor redirection, since the terminal modes are altered via ioctl(2).  If
is invoked via link with any of the names or it operates as if run with the
corresponding (pseudo-)capability operand.  For example, executing a link
named that points to has the same effect as This feature was introduced by 5.2
in 2000.  It is rarely used.  is a separate program, which is both smaller and
more frequently executed.  has the same name as another program in widespread
use.  is provided by the tset(1) utility (also via a link named Besides the
pseudo-capabilities (such as treats the and specially: it may call
setupterm(3X) to obtain the terminal size.  First, attempts to obtain these
capabilities from the terminal database.  This generally fails for terminal
emulators, which lack a fixed window size and thus omit the capabilities.  It
then asks the operating system for the terminal's size, which generally works,
unless the connection is via a serial line that does not support “NAWS”:
negotiations about window size.	 Finally, it inspects the environment
variables and which may override the terminal size.  If the option is given,
ignores the environment variables by calling relying upon the operating system
(or, ultimately, the terminal database).  retrieves more than one capability
per invocation of The capabilities must be passed to from the standard input
stream instead of from the command line (see section “EXAMPLES” below).	 Only
one is allowed per line.  The option changes the meanings of the and exit
statuses (see section “EXIT STATUS” below).  Some capabilities use string
parameters rather than numeric ones.  employs a built-in table and the
presence of parameters in its input to decide how to interpret them, and
whether to use tparm(3X).  indicates the terminal's Normally this option is
unnecessary, because a default is taken from the environment variable.	If
specified, the environment variables and are also ignored.  causes to operate
verbosely, reporting warnings.	reports the version of associated with and
exits with a successful status.	 prevents from attempting to clear the
scrollback buffer.  Normally, one should interpret exit statuses as follows.
Status	 Meaning When -S Not Specified
───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
0	 Boolean or string capability present
1	 Boolean or numeric capability absent
2	 usage error or no terminal type specified
3	 unrecognized terminal type
4	 unrecognized capability code
>4	 system error (4 + errno)
When the option is used, some statuses change meanings.
Status	 Meaning When -S Specified
───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
0	 all operands interpreted
1	 unused
4	 some operands not interpreted
reads up to three environment variables if the option is not specified.
specifies the width of the screen in characters.  specifies the height of the
screen in characters.  denotes the terminal type.  Each terminal type is
distinct, though many are similar.  tab stop initialization database compiled
terminal description database Over time has differed from that of System V in
two important respects, one now mostly historical.  writes to the standard
output, which need not be a terminal device.  However, the operands that
manipulate terminal modes might not use the standard output.  System V and
operands use logic from 4.1cBSD manipulating terminal modes.  It checks the
same file descriptors (and for association with a terminal device as now does,
and if none are, finally assumes a 1200 baud terminal.	When updating terminal
modes, it ignores errors.  Until 6.1 (see section “HISTORY” below), did not
modify terminal modes.	It now employs a scheme similar to System V, using
functions shared with (and ultimately based on 4.4BSD If it is not able to
open a terminal (for instance, when run by cron(1)), exits with an error
status.	 System V assumes that the type of a operand is numeric if all the
characters of its value are decimal numbers; if they are not, it treats as a
string capability.  Most implementations that provide support for operands use
the tparm(3X) function to expand its parameters.  That function expects a
mixture of numeric and string parameters, requiring to know which type to use.
uses a table to determine the parameter types for the standard operands, and
an internal function to analyze nonstandard operands.  While more reliable
than System V's utility, a portability problem is introduced by this analysis.
An OpenBSD developer adapted the internal library function from to port
NetBSD's to and modified it to interpret multiple (and parameters) on the
command line.  Portable applications should not rely upon this feature; offers
it to support applications written specifically for OpenBSD.  This
implementation, unlike others, accepts both and if support is compiled in.  In
that case, however, the predefined and codes have two ambiguities; assumes the
code.  The means to but to uses the code for uses the code for The means to
but to uses the code for uses the code for The operand, option, and the
parameter-substitution features used in the example below, were not supported
in AT&T/USL before SVr4 (1989).	 Later, 4.3BSD-Reno (1990) added support for
and in 1994, NetBSD added support for the parameter-substitution features.
IEEE Std 1003.1/The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 7 (POSIX.1-2008)
documents only the and operands.  A few observations of interest arise from
that selection.	 supports as it does any other standard The others and do not
correspond to terminal capabilities.  The on SVr4-based systems such as
Solaris, IRIX64, and HP-UX, as well as others such as AIX and Tru64, also
support standard operands.  A few platforms such as FreeBSD recognize codes
rather than capability codes in their respective commands.  Since 2010,
NetBSD's uses codes.  Before that, it (like FreeBSD) recognized codes.
Beginning in 2021, FreeBSD uses configured for both (tested first) and (as a
fallback).  Because (apparently) all Unix systems support the full set of
capability codes, the reason for documenting only a few may not be apparent.
X/Open Curses Issue 7 documents differently, with and the other features used
in this implementation.	 That is, there are two standards for POSIX (a subset)
and X/Open Curses (the full implementation).  POSIX documents a subset to
avoid the complication of including X/Open Curses and the terminal capability
database.  While it is certainly possible to write a program without using no
system with a implementation provides a utility that does not also support
standard X/Open Curses Issue 7 (2009) is the first version to document
utilities.  However that part of X/Open Curses does not follow existing
practice (that is, System V behavior).	It assigns exit status 4 to “invalid
operand”, which may have the same meaning as “unknown capability”.  For
instance, the source code for Solaris uses the term “invalid” in this case.
It assigns exit status 255 to a numeric variable that is not specified in the
database.  That likely is a documentation error, mistaking the “-1” written to
the standard output to indicate an absent or canceled numeric capability for
an (unsigned) exit status.  The various System V implementations (AIX, HP-UX,
Solaris) use the same exit statuses as NetBSD documents exit statuses that
correspond to neither nor X/Open Curses.  Bill Joy wrote a command during
development of 4BSD in October 1980.  This initial version only cleared the
screen, and did not ship with official distributions.  System V developed a
different command.  SVr2 (1984) provided a rudimentary that checked the
parameter against each predefined capability and returned the corresponding
value.	This version of did not use tparm(3X) for parameterized capabilities.
SVr3 (1987) replaced that with a more extensive program whose support for and
operands (more than half the program) incorporated the feature of BSD written
by Eric Allman.	 SVr4 (1989) added color initialization by using the and
capabilities in its logic.  Keith Bostic refactored BSD for shipment in
4.3BSD-Reno (1990), making it follow the interface of System V by accepting
some parameters named for (pseudo-)capabilities: and However, because he had
only available, it accepted codes for other capabilities.  Also, Bostic's BSD
did not modify the terminal modes as the earlier BSD had done.	At the same
time, Bostic added a shell script named “clear” that used to clear the screen.
These became the “modern” BSD implementation of The origin of lies outside
both System V and BSD, in Ross Ridge's package, published on in December 1992.
Ridge's program made more sophisticated use of the terminal capabilities than
the BSD program.  Eric Raymond used that program (and other parts of in in
June 1995.  Incorporating the portions dealing with terminal capabilities
almost without change, Raymond made improvements to the way command-line
parameters were handled.  Before 6.1 (2018), its and utilities differed.  was
more effective, resetting the terminal's modes and special input characters.
On the other hand, repertoire of terminal capabilities for resetting the
terminal was more limited; it had only equivalents of and and not the tab stop
and margin update features of The program is traditionally an alias for due to
its ability to reset the terminal's modes and special input characters.	 As of
6.1, the “reset” features of the two programs are (mostly) the same.  Two
minor differences remain.  When issuing a reset, the program checks whether
the device appears to be a pseudoterminal (as might be used by a terminal
emulator program), and, if it does not, waits one second in case it is
communicating with a hardware terminal.	 The two programs write the terminal
initialization strings to different streams; that is, standard error for and
standard output for Initialize the terminal according to the type of terminal
in the environment variable.  If the system does not reliably initialize the
terminal upon login, this command can be included in after exporting the
environment variable.  Reset an AT&T 5620 terminal, overriding the terminal
type in the environment variable.  Set cursor to normal visibility.  Move the
cursor to line 0, column 0: the upper left corner of the screen, usually known
as the “home” cursor position.	Clear the screen: write the capability's value
to the standard output stream.	Report the number of columns used by the
current terminal type.	Report the number of columns used by an ADM-3A
terminal.  Set shell variables to capability values: and to begin and end,
respectively, stand-out mode for the terminal.	One might use these to present
a prompt.  printf "${strong}Username:${normal} " Indicate via exit status
whether the terminal is a hard copy device.  Move the cursor to line 23,
column 4.  Report the value of the capability (used for cursor movement), with
no parameters substituted.  Report the database's description of the terminal
type specified in the environment variable.  Process multiple capabilities.
The option can be profitably used with a shell “here document”.
The foregoing clears the screen, moves the cursor to position (10, 10) and
turns on bold (extra bright) mode.  Perform the same actions as the foregoing
example.  clear(1), stty(1), tabs(1), tset(1), curs_termcap(3X), terminfo(5)


