traceroute - print the route packets trace to network host
						tracks the route packets taken
					from an IP network on their way to a
					given host. It utilizes the IP
					protocol's time to live (TTL) field
					and attempts to elicit an ICMP
					TIME_EXCEEDED response from each
					gateway along the path to the host.
					is equivalent to The only required
					parameter is the name or IP address of
					the destination The optional is the
					total size of the probing packet
					(default 60 bytes for IPv4 and 80 for
					IPv6). The specified size can be
					ignored in some situations or
					increased up to a minimal value.  This
					program attempts to trace the route an
					IP packet would follow to some
					internet host by launching probe
					packets with a small ttl (time to
					live) then listening for an ICMP "time
					exceeded" reply from a gateway.	 We
					start our probes with a ttl of one and
					increase by one until we get an ICMP
					"port unreachable" (or TCP reset),
					which means we got to the "host", or
					hit a max (which defaults to 30 hops).
					Three probes (by default) are sent at
					each ttl setting and a line is printed
					showing the ttl, address of the
					gateway and round trip time of each
					probe. The address can be followed by
					additional information when requested.
					If the probe answers come from
					different gateways, the address of
					each responding system will be
					printed.  If there is no response
					within a certain timeout, an "*"
					(asterisk) is printed for that probe.
					After the trip time, some additional
					annotation can be printed: or (host,
					network or protocol unreachable),
					(source route failed), (fragmentation
					needed), (communication
					administratively prohibited), (host
					precedence violation), (precedence
					cutoff in effect), or (ICMP
					unreachable code <num>).  If almost
					all the probes result in some kind of
					unreachable, traceroute will give up
					and exit.  We don't want the
					destination host to process the UDP
					probe packets, so the destination port
					is set to an unlikely value (you can
					change it with the flag). There is no
					such a problem for ICMP or TCP
					tracerouting (for TCP we use half-open
					technique, which prevents our probes
					to be seen by applications on the
					destination host).  In the modern
					network environment the traditional
					traceroute methods can not be always
					applicable, because of widespread use
					of firewalls.  Such firewalls filter
					the "unlikely" UDP ports, or even ICMP
					echoes.	 To solve this, some
					additional tracerouting methods are
					implemented (including tcp), see
					below. Such methods try to use
					particular protocol and
					source/destination port, in order to
					bypass firewalls (to be seen by
					firewalls just as a start of allowed
					type of a network session).  Print
					help info and exit.  Explicitly force
					IPv4 or IPv6 tracerouting. By default,
					the program will try to resolve the
					name given, and choose the appropriate
					protocol automatically. If resolving a
					host name returns both IPv4 and IPv6
					addresses, will use IPv4.  Use ICMP
					ECHO for probes Use TCP SYN for probes
					Enable socket level debugging (when
					the Linux kernel supports it) Do not
					fragment probe packets. (For IPv4 it
					also sets DF bit, which tells
					intermediate routers not to fragment
					remotely as well).

					Varying the size of the probing packet
					by the command line parameter, you can
					manually obtain information about the
					MTU of individual network hops. The
					option (see below) tries to do this
					automatically.

					Note, that non-fragmented features
					(like or work properly since the Linux
					kernel 2.6.22 only.  Before that
					version, IPv6 was always fragmented,
					IPv4 could use the once the discovered
					final mtu only (from the route cache),
					which can be less than the actual mtu
					of a device.  Specifies with what TTL
					to start. Defaults to 1.  Tells
					traceroute to add an IP source routing
					option to the outgoing packet that
					tells the network to route the packet
					through the specified (most routers
					have disabled source routing for
					security reasons).  In general,
					several is allowed (comma separated).
					For IPv6, the form of is allowed,
					where is a route header type (default
					is type 2). Note the type 0 route
					header is now deprecated (rfc5095).
					Specifies the interface through which
					should send packets. By default, the
					interface is selected according to the
					routing table.	Specifies the maximum
					number of hops (max time-to-live
					value) will probe. The default is 30.
					Specifies the number of probe packets
					sent out simultaneously.  Sending
					several probes concurrently can speed
					up considerably. The default value is
					16.
					Note that some routers and hosts can
					use ICMP rate throttling. In such a
					situation specifying too large number
					can lead to loss of some responses.
					Do not try to map IP addresses to host
					names when displaying them.  For UDP
					tracing, specifies the destination
					port base will use (the destination
					port number will be incremented by
					each probe).
					For ICMP tracing, specifies the
					initial ICMP sequence value
					(incremented by each probe too).
					For TCP and others specifies just the
					(constant) destination port to
					connect.  For IPv4, set the Type of
					Service (TOS) and Precedence value.
					Useful values are 16 (low delay) and 8
					(high throughput). Note that in order
					to use some TOS precedence values, you
					have to be super user.
					For IPv6, set the Traffic Control
					value.	Use specified flow_label for
					IPv6 packets.  Determines how long to
					wait for a response to a probe.

					There are three (in general) float
					values separated by a comma (or a
					slash).	 specifies the maximum time
					(in seconds, default 5.0) to wait, in
					any case.

					Traditional traceroute implementation
					always waited whole seconds for any
					probe. But if we already have some
					replies from the hop, or even from
					some hop, we can use the round trip
					time of such a reply as a hint to
					determine the actual reasonable amount
					of time to wait.

					The optional (default 3.0) specifies a
					factor to multiply the round trip time
					of an already received response from
					the hop. The resulting value is used
					as a timeout for the probe, instead of
					(but no more than) The optional
					(default 10.0) specifies a similar
					factor for a response from some hop.
					(The time of the first found result is
					used in both cases).

					First, we look for the hop (of the
					probe which will be printed first from
					now).  If nothing found, then look for
					some hop. If nothing found, use If
					and/or have zero values, the
					corresponding computation is skipped.
					and are always set to zero if only is
					specified (for compatibility with
					previous versions).  Sets the number
					of probe packets per hop. The default
					is 3.  Bypass the normal routing
					tables and send directly to a host on
					an attached network.  If the host is
					not on a directly-attached network, an
					error is returned.  This option can be
					used to ping a local host through an
					interface that has no route through
					it.  Chooses an alternative source
					address. Note that you must select the
					address of one of the interfaces.  By
					default, the address of the outgoing
					interface is used.  Minimal time
					interval between probes (default 0).
					If the value is more than 10, then it
					specifies a number in milliseconds,
					else it is a number of seconds (float
					point values allowed too).  Useful
					when some routers use rate-limit for
					ICMP messages.	Show ICMP extensions
					(rfc4884). The general form is
					followed by a hexadecimal dump.	 The
					MPLS (rfc4950) is shown parsed, in a
					form: (more objects separated by ).
					The Interface Information (rfc5837) is
					shown parsed as well, in a following
					form: (all four fields may be
					missing).  Perform AS path lookups in
					routing registries and print results
					directly after the corresponding
					addresses.  Print the version and
					exit.
					There are additional options intended
					for advanced usage (such as alternate
					trace methods etc.): Chooses the
					source port to use. Implies Normally
					source ports (if applicable) are
					chosen by the system.  Set the
					firewall mark for outgoing packets
					(since the Linux kernel 2.6.25).  Use
					specified method for traceroute
					operations. Default traditional udp
					method has name icmp and tcp have
					names and respectively.
					Method-specific options can be passed
					by Most methods have their simple
					shortcuts, etc).  Specifies some
					method-specific option. Several
					options are separated by comma (or use
					several on cmdline).  Each method may
					have its own specific options, or many
					not have them at all.  To print
					information about available options,
					use Use UDP to particular destination
					port for tracerouting (instead of
					increasing the port per each probe).
					Default port is 53 (dns).  Use UDPLITE
					for tracerouting (default port is 53).
					Use DCCP Requests for probes.  Use raw
					packet of specified protocol for
					tracerouting. Default protocol is 253
					(rfc3692).  Discover MTU along the
					path being traced. Implies New is
					printed once in a form of at the first
					probe of a hop which requires such to
					be reached. (Actually, the correspond
					"frag needed" icmp message normally is
					sent by the previous hop).

					Note, that some routers might cache
					once the seen information on a
					fragmentation. Thus you can receive
					the final mtu from a closer hop.  Try
					to specify an unusual by , this can
					help for one attempt (then it can be
					cached there as well).
					See option for more info.  Print the
					number of backward hops when it seems
					different with the forward direction.
					This number is guessed in assumption
					that remote hops send reply packets
					with initial ttl set to either 64, or
					128 or 255 (which seems a common
					practice). It is printed as a negate
					value in a form of '-NUM' .  In
					general, a particular traceroute
					method may have to be chosen by but
					most of the methods have their simple
					cmdline switches (you can see them
					after the method name, if present).
					The traditional, ancient method of
					tracerouting. Used by default.	Probe
					packets are udp datagrams with so-
					called "unlikely" destination ports.
					The "unlikely" port of the first probe
					is 33434, then for each next probe it
					is incremented by one. Since the ports
					are expected to be unused, the
					destination host normally returns
					"icmp unreach port" as a final
					response.  (Nobody knows what happens
					when some application listens for such
					ports, though).	 This method is
					allowed for unprivileged users.	 Most
					usual method for now, which uses icmp
					echo packets for probes.
					If you can ping(8) the destination
					host, icmp tracerouting is applicable
					as well.  This method may be allowed
					for unprivileged users since the
					kernel 3.0 (IPv4, for IPv6 since
					3.11), which supports new (or sockets.
					To allow such sockets, sysadmin should
					provide sysctl range to match any
					group of the user.
					Options: Use only raw sockets (the
					traditional way).
					This way is tried first by default
					(for compatibility reasons), then new
					dgram icmp sockets as fallback.	 Use
					only dgram icmp sockets.  Well-known
					modern method, intended to bypass
					firewalls.
					Uses the constant destination port
					(default is 80, http).	If some
					filters are present in the network
					path, then most probably any
					"unlikely" udp ports (as for method)
					or even icmp echoes (as for are
					filtered, and whole tracerouting will
					just stop at such a firewall.  To
					bypass a network filter, we have to
					use only allowed protocol/port
					combinations. If we trace for some,
					say, mailserver, then more likely can
					reach it, even when can not.  This
					method uses well-known "half-open
					technique", which prevents
					applications on the destination host
					from seeing our probes at all.
					Normally, a tcp syn is sent. For non-
					listened ports we receive tcp reset,
					and all is done. For active listening
					ports we receive tcp syn+ack, but
					answer by tcp reset (instead of
					expected tcp ack), this way the remote
					tcp session is dropped even without
					the application ever taking notice.
					There is a couple of options for
					method: Sets specified tcp flags for
					probe packet, in any combination.
					Sets the flags field in the tcp header
					exactly to Send syn packet with tcp
					flags ECE and CWR (for Explicit
					Congestion Notification, rfc3168).
					Use the corresponding tcp header
					option in the outgoing probe packet.
					Use current sysctl setting for the tcp
					header options above and Always set by
					default, if nothing else specified.
					Use fastopen tcp option (when for
					initial cookie negotiation only.  Use
					value of (or unchanged) for maxseg tcp
					header option (when and discover its
					clamping along the path being traced.
					New changed is printed once in a form
					of at the first probe on which it was
					detected.  Note, some routers may
					return too short original fragment in
					the time exceeded message, making the
					check impossible.  Besides that the
					responses may come in a different
					order.	All this can lead to a later
					place of the report (using can help
					for the order).	 Print tcp flags and
					supported options of final tcp replies
					when the target host is reached.
					Allows to determine whether an
					application listens the port and other
					useful things.	Supported tcp options
					are all that can be set by ie.	and
					with the similar output format (a
					value for and just presence for
					others).  Default options is An
					initial implementation of tcp method,
					simple using connect(2) call, which
					does full tcp session opening. Not
					recommended for normal use, because a
					destination application is always
					affected (and can be confused).	 Use
					udp datagram with constant destination
					port (default 53, dns).
					Intended to bypass firewall as well.
					Note, that unlike in method, the
					correspond application on the
					destination host receive our probes
					(with random data), and most can
					easily be confused by them. Most cases
					it will not respond to our packets
					though, so we will never see the final
					hop in the trace. (Fortunately, it
					seems that at least dns servers
					replies with something angry).	This
					method is allowed for unprivileged
					users.	Use udplite datagram for
					probes (with constant destination
					port, default 53).  This method is
					allowed for unprivileged users.
					Options: Set udplite send coverage to
					Use DCCP Request packets for probes
					(rfc4340).  This method uses the same
					"half-open technique" as used for TCP.
					The default destination port is 33434.
					Options: Set DCCP service code to
					(default is 1885957735).  Send raw
					packet of protocol
					No protocol-specific headers are used,
					just IP header only.
					Implies
					Options: Use IP protocol (default
					253).  To speed up work, normally
					several probes are sent
					simultaneously.	 On the other hand, it
					creates a "storm of packages",
					especially in the reply direction.
					Routers can throttle the rate of icmp
					responses, and some of replies can be
					lost. To avoid this, decrease the
					number of simultaneous probes, or even
					set it to 1 (like in initial
					traceroute implementation), i.e.  The
					final (target) host can drop some of
					the simultaneous probes, and might
					even answer only the latest ones. It
					can lead to extra "looks like expired"
					hops near the final hop. We use a
					smart algorithm to auto-detect such a
					situation, but if it cannot help in
					your case, just use too.  For even
					greater stability you can slow down
					the program's work by option, for
					example use for half-second pause
					between probes.	 To avoid an extra
					waiting, we use adaptive algorithm for
					timeouts (see option for more info).
					It can lead to premature expiry
					(especially when response times differ
					at times) and printing "*" instead of
					a time. In such a case, switch this
					algorithm off, by specifying with the
					desired timeout only (for example, If
					some hops report nothing for every
					method, the last chance to obtain
					something is to use command (IPv4, and
					for nearest 8 hops only).


