troff - GNU typesetter and document formatter GNU transforms language input
into the device-independent output format described in is thus the heart of
the GNU document formatting system.  If no operands are given on the command
line, or if is the standard input stream is read.  GNU is functionally
compatible with the AT&T typesetter and features numerous extensions.  Many
people prefer to use the command, a front end which also runs preprocessors
and output drivers in the appropriate order and with appropriate options.  and
display a usage message, while and show version information; all exit
afterward.  Generate a plain text approximation of the typeset output.	The
read-only register is set to 1.	 This option produces a sort of abstract
preview of the formatted output.  Page breaks are marked by a phrase in angle
brackets; for example, “<beginning of page>”.  Lines are broken where they
would be in the formatted output.  A horizontal motion of any size is
represented as one space.  Adjacent horizontal motions are not combined.
Inter-sentence space nodes (those arising from the second argument to the
request) are not represented.  Vertical motions are not represented.  Special
characters are rendered in angle brackets; for example, the default soft
hyphen character appears as “<hy>”.  The above description should not be
considered a specification; the details of output are subject to change.
Write a backtrace reporting the state of input parser to the standard error
stream with each diagnostic message.  The line numbers given in the backtrace
might not always be correct, because idea of line numbers can be confused by
requests that append to macros.	 Start with color output disabled.  Enable
AT&T compatibility mode; implies See Define or as be one character; can be of
arbitrary length.  Such string assignments happen before any macro file is
loaded, including the startup file.  Due to limitations, be, and cannot
contain, an equals sign, even though that is a valid character in a
identifier.  Inhibit error messages; implies This option does suppress
messages sent to the standard error stream by documents or macro packages
using or related requests.  Use as the default font family.  Search in
directory for the selected output device's directory of device and font
description files.  See the description of in section “Environment” below for
the default search locations and ordering.  Read the standard input stream
after all named input files have been processed.  Search the directory for
files (those named on the command line; in and requests; and in and device
control escape sequences).  may be specified more than once; each is searched
in the given order.  To search the current working directory before others,
add at the desired place; it is otherwise searched last.  works similarly to,
and is named for, the “include” option of Unix C compilers.  Process the file
prior to any input files.  If not found, is attempted.	(in both arrangements)
is presumed to be a macro file; see the description of in section
“Environment” below for the default search locations and ordering.  Search
directory for macro files.  See the description of in section “Environment”
below for the default search locations and ordering.  Begin numbering pages at
The default Output only pages in which is a comma-separated list of inclusive
page ranges; means page means every page means every page up and means every
page from stops processing and exits after formatting the last page enumerated
in Define or as be a one-character name; can be of arbitrary length.  Such
register assignments happen before any macro file is loaded, including the
startup file.  Due to limitations, be, and cannot contain, an equals sign,
even though that is a valid character in a identifier.	Don't load and Prepare
output for device The default is see Operate in enabling the and requests,
which are disabled by default because they allow an untrusted input document
to write to arbitrary file names and run arbitrary commands.  This option also
adds the current directory to the macro package search path; see the and
options above.	Enable or inhibit warnings in category See section “Warnings”
below.	Suppress formatted output.  Warning diagnostics emitted by are divided
into named, numbered categories.  The name associated with each warning
category is used by the and options.  Each category is also assigned a power
of two; the sum of enabled category codes is used by the request and the
register.  Warnings of each category are produced under the following
circumstances.
	    ┌──────────────────────┬─────────────────────────────┐
	    │Bit   Code	  Category │ Bit    Code      Category	 │
	    ├──────────────────────┼─────────────────────────────┤
	    │  0      1	  char	   │  10      1024   reg	 │
	    │  1      2	  number   │  11      2048   tab	 │
	    │  2      4	  break	   │  12      4096   right-brace │
	    │  3      8	  delim	   │  13      8192   missing	 │
	    │  4     16	  el	   │  14     16384   input	 │
	    │  5     32	  scale	   │  15     32768   escape	 │
	    │  6     64	  range	   │  16     65536   space	 │
	    │  7    128	  syntax   │  17    131072   font	 │
	    │  8    256	  di	   │  18    262144   ig		 │
	    │  9    512	  mac	   │  19    524288   color	 │
	    │			   │  20   1048576   file	 │
	    └──────────────────────┴─────────────────────────────┘
A filled output line could not be broken such that its length was less than
the output line length This category is enabled by default.  No mounted font
defines a glyph for the requested character.  This category is enabled by
default.  An undefined color name was selected, an attempt was made to define
a color using an unrecognized color space, an invalid component in a color
definition was encountered, or an attempt was made to redefine a default
color.	The closing delimiter in an escape sequence was missing or mismatched.
A or request was invoked without an argument when there was no current
diversion.  The request was encountered with no prior corresponding request.
An unsupported escape sequence was encountered.	 An attempt was made to load a
file that does not exist.  This category is enabled by default.	 A non-
existent font was selected, or the selection was ignored because a font
selection escape sequence was used after the output line continuation escape
sequence on an input line.  This category is enabled by default.  An invalid
escape sequence occurred in input ignored using the request.  This warning
category diagnoses a condition that is an error when it occurs in non-ignored
input.	An invalid character occurred on the input stream.  An undefined
string, macro, or diversion was used.  When such an object is dereferenced, an
empty one of that name is automatically created.  So, unless it is later
deleted, at most one warning is given for each.	 This warning is also emitted
upon an attempt to move an unplanted trap macro.  In such cases, the unplanted
macro is dereferenced, so it is not created if it does not exist.  A request
was invoked with a mandatory argument absent.  An invalid numeric expression
was encountered.  This category is enabled by default.	A numeric expression
was out of range for its context.  An undefined register was used.  When an
undefined register is dereferenced, it is automatically defined with a value
of 0.  So, unless it is later deleted, at most one warning is given for each.
A right brace escape sequence was encountered where a number was expected.  A
scaling unit inappropriate to its context was used in a numeric expression.  A
space was missing between a request or macro and its argument.	This warning
is produced when an undefined name longer than two characters is encountered
and the first two characters of the name constitute a defined name.  No
request is invoked, no macro called, and an empty macro is not defined.	 This
category is enabled by default.	 It never occurs in compatibility mode.	 A
self-contradictory hyphenation mode was requested; an empty or incomplete
numeric expression was encountered; an operand to a numeric operator was
missing; an attempt was made to define a recursive, empty, or nonsensical
character class; or a extension conditional expression operator was used while
in compatibility mode.	A tab character was encountered where a number was
expected, or appeared in an unquoted macro argument.  Two warning names group
other warning categories for convenience.  All warning categories except and
This shorthand is intended to produce all warnings that are useful with macro
packages and documents written for AT&T and its descendants, which have less
fastidious diagnostics than GNU All warning categories.	 Authors of documents
and macro packages targeting are encouraged to use this setting.  and each
accept a search path of directories; that is, a list of directory names
separated by the system's path component separator character.  On Unix
systems, this character is a colon (:); on Windows systems, it is a semicolon
(;).  A list of directories in which to seek the selected output device's
directory of device and font description files.	 will scan directories given
as arguments to any specified options before these, then in a site-specific
directory a standard location and a compatibility directory after them.	 A
list of directories in which to search for macro files.	 will scan directories
given as arguments to any specified options before these, then the current
directory (only if in unsafe mode), the user's home directory, a site-specific
directory and a standard location after them.  Set the default output device.
If empty or not set, is used.  The option overrides A timestamp (expressed as
seconds since the Unix epoch) to use as the output creation timestamp in place
of the current time.  The time is converted to human-readable form using when
the formatter starts up and stored in registers usable by documents and macro
packages.  The timezone to use when converting the current time (or value of
to human-readable form; see is an initialization macro file loaded before any
macro packages specified with options.	is an initialization macro file loaded
after all macro packages specified with options.  are macro files distributed
with describes the output device describes the font of device and are sought
neither in the current nor the home directory by default for security reasons,
even if the option is specified.  Use the command-line option or the
environment variable to add these directories to the search path if necessary.
The GNU version of was originally written by James Clark; he also wrote the
original version of this document, which was updated by Werner Lemberg Bernd
Warken and G. Branden Robinson by Trent A. Fisher and Werner Lemberg, is the
primary manual.	 You can browse it interactively with “info groff”.  offers an
overview of the GNU system and describes its front end executable.  details
the language, including a short but complete reference of all predefined
requests, registers, and escape sequences.  explains the syntax of special
character escape sequences, and lists all special characters predefined by the
language.  enumerates the differences between AT&T device-independent and
covers the format of device and font description files.	 describes the format
of output.  includes information about macro files that ship with supplies
background on systems in general, including pointers to further related
documentation.


