tzselect - select a timezone [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] The program asks the user for
information about the current location, and outputs the resulting timezone to
standard output.  The output is suitable as a value for the TZ environment
variable.  All interaction with the user is done via standard input and
standard error.	 Instead of asking for continent and then country and then
city, ask for selection from time zones whose largest cities are closest to
the location with geographical coordinates Use ISO 6709 notation for that is,
a latitude immediately followed by a longitude.	 The latitude and longitude
should be signed integers followed by an optional decimal point and fraction:
positive numbers represent north and east, negative south and west.  Latitudes
with two and longitudes with three integer digits are treated as degrees;
latitudes with four or six and longitudes with five or seven integer digits
are treated as or representing or degrees, minutes, and zero or seconds, with
any trailing fractions represent fractional minutes or (if is present)
seconds.  The decimal point is that of the current locale.  For example, in
the (default) C locale, specifies 40.689 degrees N, 74.045 degrees W,
specifies 40 degrees 41.4 minutes N, 74 degrees 2.7 minutes W, and specifies
40 degrees 41 minutes 21 seconds N, 74 degrees 2 minutes 40 seconds W.	If is
not one of the documented forms, the resulting behavior is unspecified.	 When
is used, display the closest locations (default 10).  Output help information
and exit.  Output version information and exit.	 AWK Name of a POSIX-compliant
program (default: TZDIR Name of the directory containing timezone data files
(default: TZDIR/iso3166.tab Table of ISO 3166 2-letter country codes and
country names.	TZDIR/zone1970.tab Table of country codes, latitude and
longitude, timezones, and descriptive comments.	 TZDIR/TZ Timezone data file
for timezone TZ.  The exit status is zero if a timezone was successfully
obtained from the user, nonzero otherwise.  newctime(3), tzfile(5), zdump(8),
zic(8) Applications should not assume that output matches the user's political
preferences.


