update-crypto-policies - manage the policies available to the various
cryptographic back-ends.

update-crypto-policies [COMMAND]

update-crypto-policies(8) is used to set the policy applicable for the various
cryptographic back-ends, such as SSL/TLS libraries. The policy aims to control
the back-end default algorithm selections unless the application user
configures them otherwise.

The available policies are described in the crypto-policies(7) manual page.

The desired system policy is selected in /etc/crypto-policies/config and this
tool will generate the individual policy requirements for all back-ends that
support such configuration. After this tool is called and all the affected
applications are restarted, the administrator is assured that any application
that utilizes the supported back-ends will follow the specified policy.

Note that the above assurance does apply to the extent that applications are
configured to follow the default policy (the details vary on the back-end, see
below for more information).

The generated back-end policies will be placed in
/etc/crypto-policies/back-ends. Currently the supported back-ends (and
directive scopes they respect) are:

•   GnuTLS library (GnuTLS, SSL, TLS)

•   OpenSSL library (OpenSSL, SSL, TLS)

•   NSS library (NSS, SSL, TLS)

•   OpenJDK (java-tls, SSL, TLS)

•   Libkrb5 (krb5, kerberos)

•   BIND (BIND, DNSSec)

•   OpenSSH (OpenSSH, SSH)

•   Libreswan (libreswan, IKE, IPSec)

•   libssh (libssh, SSH)

Applications and languages which rely on any of these back-ends will follow
the system policies as well. Examples are apache httpd, nginx, php, and
others.

In general after changing the system crypto policies with the
update-crypto-policies --set command it is recommended to restart the system
for the effect to fully take place as the policy configuration files are
loaded on application start-up. Otherwise applications started before the
command was run need to be restarted to load the updated configuration.

The following commands are available in update-crypto-policies tool.

•   --set: Sets the current policy and overwrites the config file.

•   --show: Shows the currently applied crypto policy.

•   --is-applied: Returns success if the currently configured policy in the
config file was applied by running the update-crypto-policies.

•   --check: Returns success if freshly generated configuration files match
the current policy. The check will return failure if there is a manual
modification of the back-end configuration files or a newer version of
crypto-policies package is installed without running update-crypto-policies.
This should not happen with system updates because update-crypto-policies is
run implicitly there.

The following options are available in update-crypto-policies tool.

•   --no-reload: By default this tool causes some running applications to
reload the configured policy. This option skips the reloading.

Applications in the operating system that provide a default configuration file
that includes a cryptographic policy string will be modified gradually to
support these policies.

When an application provides a configuration file, the changes needed to
utilize the system-wide policy are the following.

•   Applications using OpenSSL: If an application allows the configuration of
ciphersuite string, the special cipher string "PROFILE=SYSTEM" should replace
any other cipher string. Applications which use the default library settings
automatically adhere to the policy. Applications following the policy inherit
the settings for cipher suite preference. By default the OpenSSL library reads
a configuration file when it is initialized. If the application does not
override loading of the configuration file, the policy also sets the minimum
TLS protocol version and default cipher suite preference via this file. If the
application is long-running such as the httpd server it has to be restarted to
reload the configuration file after policy is changed. Otherwise the changed
policy cannot take effect.

•   Applications using GnuTLS: Applications using GnuTLS will load the crypto
policies by default. To prevent applications from adhering to the policy the
GNUTLS_SYSTEM_PRIORITY_FILE environment variable must be set on an empty file
(e.g., /dev/null). The policy covers the settings for cipher suite preference,
TLS and DTLS protocol versions, allowed elliptic curves, and limits for
cryptographic keys.

•   Applications using NSS: Applications using NSS will load the crypto
policies by default. They inherit the settings for cipher suite preference,
TLS and DTLS protocol versions, allowed elliptic curves, and limits for
cryptographic keys. To prevent applications from adhering to the policy the
NSS_IGNORE_SYSTEM_POLICY environment variable must be set to 1 prior to
executing that application.

•   Applications using Java: No special treatment is required. Applications
using Java will load the crypto policies by default. These applications will
then inherit the settings for allowed cipher suites, allowed TLS and DTLS
protocol versions, allowed elliptic curves, and limits for cryptographic keys.
To prevent openjdk applications from adhering to the policy the
<java.home>/jre/lib/security/java.security file should be edited to contain
security.useSystemPropertiesFile=false or the system property
java.security.disableSystemPropertiesFile be set to true. Note that the system
property java.security.properties is loaded with a lower preference than the
crypto policies, so you can’t use this property to override crypto policies
without also preventing openjdk applications from adhering to the policy.

•   Applications using libkrb5: No special treatment is required. Applications
will follow the crypto policies by default. These applications inherit the
settings for the permitted encryption types for tickets as well as the
cryptographic key limits for the PKINIT protocol. A system-wide opt-out is
available by deleting the /etc/krb5.conf.d/crypto-policies link.

•   BIND: This application inherits the set of disabled algorithms. To opt-out
from the policy, remove the policy include directive in the named.conf file.

•   OpenSSH: Both server and client application inherits the cipher
preferences, the key exchange algorithms as well as the GSSAPI key exchange
algorithms. To opt-out from the policy for client, override the global
ssh_config with a user-specific configuration in ~/.ssh/config. See
ssh_config(5) for more information. To override some configuration option in
server, use a drop-in directory /etc/ssh/sshd_config.d/ to create a file
lexicographically preceding 05-redhat.conf which is currently including crypto
policies configuration file.

•   Libreswan: Both servers and clients inherit the ESP and IKE preferences,
if they are not overridden in the connection configuration file. Note that due
to limitations of libreswan, crypto policies is restricted to supporting
IKEv2. To opt-out from the policy, comment the line including
/etc/crypto-policies/back-ends/libreswan.config from /etc/ipsec.conf.

•   Applications using libssh: Both client and server applications using
libssh will load the crypto policies by default. They inherit the ciphers, key
exchange, message authentication, and signature algorithms preferences.

One of the supported policies should be set in /etc/crypto-policies/config and
this script should be run afterwards.

In case of a parsing error no policies will be updated.

The custom policies can take two forms. First form is a full custom policy
file which is supported by the update-crypto-policies tool in the same way as
the policies shipped along the tool in the package.

The second form can be called a subpolicy or policy modifier. This form
modifies aspects of any base policy file by removing or adding algorithms or
protocols. The subpolicies can be appended on the update-crypto-policies --set
command line to the base policy separated by the : character. There can be
multiple subpolicies appended. The resulting configuration is the same as if
the policy and subpolicies were concatenated together.

Let’s suppose we have subpolicy NO-SHA1 that drops support for SHA1 hash and
subpolicy GOST that enables support for the various algorithms specified in
Russian GOST standards. You can set the DEFAULT policy with disabled SHA1
support and enabled GOST support by running the following command:

update-crypto-policies --set DEFAULT:NO-SHA1:GOST

This command generates and applies configuration that will be modification of
the DEFAULT policy with changes specified in the NO-SHA1 and GOST subpolicies.
/etc/crypto-policies/config The file contains the system policy to be applied
when update-crypto-policies is run without any arguments. It should contain a
string of one of the policies listed in the crypto-policies(7) page (e.g.,
DEFAULT) or any custom policy name with subpolicies separated by the :
character. The file is overwritten when update-crypto-policies --set is
executed.  /etc/crypto-policies/back-ends Contains the generated policies in
separated files, and in a format readable by the supported back ends.
/etc/crypto-policies/local.d Contains additional files to be appended to the
generated policy files. The files present must adhere to $app-XXX.config file
naming, where XXX is any arbitrary identifier. For example, to append a line
to GnuTLS' generated policy, create a gnutls-extra-line.config file in
local.d. This will be appended to the generated gnutls.config during
update-crypto-policies. Please note that because the mechanism just appends a
line to the back-end configuration the effect varies among the back-ends. For
some of the back-ends the override fully replaces the original policy and for
other back-ends the override might not be effective at all.
/etc/crypto-policies/state/current The file contains the current system policy
name with eventual subpolicies as of the last execution of the
update-crypto-policies command.	 /etc/crypto-policies/state/CURRENT.pol The
file contains the current system policy definition with all the modifications
from eventual subpolicies applied and is written when the
update-crypto-policies command is executed.

crypto-policies(7)

Written by Nikos Mavrogiannopoulos.


