vmstat - Report virtual memory statistics [options] reports information about
processes, memory, paging, block IO, traps, disks and cpu activity.  The first
report produced gives averages since the last reboot.  Additional reports give
information on a sampling period of length The process and memory reports are
instantaneous in either case.  The between updates in seconds.	If no is
specified, only one report is printed with the average values since boot.
Number of updates.  In absence of when is defined, default is infinite.	 -a,
--active Display active and  inactive memory, given a 2.5.41 kernel or better.
-f, --forks The switch displays the number of forks since boot.	 This includes
the fork, vfork, and clone system calls, and is equivalent to the total number
of tasks created.  Each process is represented by one or more tasks, depending
on thread usage.  This display does not repeat.	 -m, --slabs Displays
slabinfo.  -n, --one-header Display the header only once rather than
periodically.  -s, --stats Displays a table of various event counters and
memory statistics.  This display does not repeat.  -d, --disk Report disk
statistics (2.5.70 or above required).	-D, --disk-sum Report some summary
statistics about disk activity.	 -p, --partition device Detailed statistics
about partition (2.5.70 or above required).  -S, --unit character Switches
outputs between 1000 1024 1000000 or 1048576 bytes.  Note this does not change
the swap (si/so) or block (bi/bo) fields.  -t, --timestamp Append timestamp to
each line -w, --wide Wide output mode (useful for systems with higher amount
of memory, where the default output mode suffers from unwanted column
breakage).  The output is wider than 80 characters per line.  -y, --no-first
Omits first report with statistics since system boot.  -V, --version Display
version information and exit.  -h, --help Display help and exit.
r: The number of runnable processes (running or waiting for run time).
b: The number of processes blocked waiting for I/O to complete.
These are affected by the --unit option.
swpd: the amount of swap memory used.
free: the amount of idle memory.
buff: the amount of memory used as buffers.
cache: the amount of memory used as cache.
inact: the amount of inactive memory.  (-a option)
active: the amount of active memory.  (-a option)
These are affected by the --unit option.
si: Amount of memory swapped in from disk (/s).
so: Amount of memory swapped to disk (/s).
bi: Kibibyte received from a block device (KiB/s).
bo: Kibibyte sent to a block device (KiB/s).
in: The number of interrupts per second, including the clock.
cs: The number of context switches per second.
These are percentages of total CPU time.
us: Time spent running non-kernel code.	 (user time, including nice time)
sy: Time spent running kernel code.  (system time)
id: Time spent idle.  Prior to Linux 2.5.41, this includes IO-wait time.
wa: Time spent waiting for IO.	Prior to Linux 2.5.41, included in idle.
st: Time stolen from a virtual machine.	 Prior to Linux 2.6.11, unknown.
gu: Time spent running KVM guest code (guest time, including guest nice).
total: Total reads completed successfully
merged: grouped reads (resulting in one I/O)
sectors: Sectors read successfully
ms: milliseconds spent reading
total: Total writes completed successfully
merged: grouped writes (resulting in one I/O)
sectors: Sectors written successfully
ms: milliseconds spent writing
cur: I/O in progress
s: seconds spent for I/O
reads: Total number of reads issued to this partition
read sectors: Total read sectors for partition
writes : Total number of writes issued to this partition
requested writes: Total number of write requests made for partition
Slab mode shows statistics per slab, for more information about this
information see
cache: Cache name
num: Number of currently active objects
total: Total number of available objects
size: Size of each object
pages: Number of pages with at least one active object
requires read access to files under /proc. The -m requires read access to
/proc/slabinfo which may not be available to standard users.  Mount options
for /proc such as subset=pid may also impact what is visible.  Please send bug
reports to


