w - Show who is logged on and what they are doing.  [options] [user] displays
information about the users currently on the machine, and their processes.
The header shows, in this order, the current time, how long the system has
been running, how many users are currently logged on, and the system load
averages for the past 1, 5, and 15 minutes.  The following entries are
displayed for each user: login name, the tty name, the remote host, login
time, idle time, JCPU, PCPU, and the command line of their current process.
The JCPU time is the time used by all processes attached to the tty.  It does
not include past background jobs, but does include currently running
background jobs.  The PCPU time is the time used by the current process, named
in the "what" field.  -h, --no-header Don't print the header.  -u,
--no-current Ignores the username while figuring out the current process and
cpu times.  To demonstrate this, do a and do a and a -s, --short Use the short
format.	 Don't print the login time, JCPU or PCPU times.  -f, --from Toggle
printing the (remote hostname) field.  The default as released is for the
field to not be printed, although your system administrator or distribution
maintainer may have compiled a version in which the field is shown by default.
--help Display help text and exit.  -i, --ip-addr Display IP address instead
of hostname for from field.  -p, --pids Display pid of the login process/the
"what" process in the "what" field.  -V, --version Display version
information.  -o, --old-style Old style output.	 Prints blank space for idle
times less than one minute.  Show information about the specified user only.
PROCPS_USERLEN Override the default width of the username column.  Defaults to
8.  PROCPS_FROMLEN Override the default width of the from column.  Defaults to
16.  information about who is currently logged on process information was re-
written almost entirely by Charles Blake, based on the version by Larry
Greenfield and Michael K. Johnson Please send bug reports to


