watch - execute a program periodically, showing output fullscreen [options]
command runs repeatedly, displaying its output and errors (the first
screenfull).  This allows you to watch the program output change over time.
By default, command is run every 2 seconds and watch will run until
interrupted.  -b, --beep Beep if command has a non-zero exit.  -c, --color
Interpret ANSI color and style sequences.  -C, --no-color Do not interpret
ANSI color and style sequences.	 -d, --differences[=permanent] Highlight the
differences between successive updates. If the optional permanent argument is
specified then will show all changes since the first iteration.	 -e, --errexit
Freeze updates on command error, and exit after a key press.  -g, --chgexit
Exit when the output of changes.  -n, --interval seconds Specify update
interval.  The command will not allow quicker than 0.1 second interval, in
which the smaller values are converted. Both '.' and ',' work for any locales.
The WATCH_INTERVAL environment can be used to persistently set a non-default
interval (following the same rules and formatting).  -p, --precise Make
attempt to run every Try it with (if present) and notice how the fractional
seconds stays (nearly) the same, as opposed to normal mode where they
continuously increase.	-q, --equexit <cycles> Exit when output of does not
change for the given number of cycles.	-r, --no-rerun Do not run the program
on terminal resize, the output of the program will re-appear at the next
regular run time.  -t, --no-title Turn off the header showing the interval,
command, and current time at the top of the display, as well as the following
blank line.  -w, --no-wrap Turn off line wrapping. Long lines will be
truncated instead of wrapped to the next line.	-x, --exec Pass to instead of
which reduces the need to use extra quoting to get the desired effect.	-h,
--help Display help text and exit.  -v, --version Display version information
and exit.  Success.  Various failures.	Forking the process to watch failed.
Replacing child process stdout with write side pipe failed.  Command execution
failed.	 Closing child process write pipe failed.  IPC pipe creation failed.
Getting child process return value with failed, or command exited up on error.
The watch will propagate command exit status as child exit status.  The
behavior of is affected by the following environment variables.

Update interval, follows the same rules as the command line option.

POSIX option processing is used (i.e., option processing stops at the first
non-option argument).  This means that flags after don't get interpreted by
itself.

Upon terminal resize, the screen will not be correctly repainted until the
next scheduled update.	All highlighting is lost on that update as well. When
using the option, no output of will be visible.

Non-printing characters are stripped from program output.  Use cat -v as part
of the command pipeline if you want to see them.

Combining Characters that are supposed to display on the character at the last
column on the screen may display one column early, or they may not display at
all.

Combining Characters never count as different in mode.	Only the base
character counts.

Blank lines directly after a line which ends in the last column do not
display.

mode doesn't yet have advanced temporal distortion technology to compensate
for a that takes more than to execute.	also can get into a state where it
rapid-fires as many executions of as it can to catch up from a previous
executions running longer than (for example, taking ages on a DNS lookup).

To watch for mail, you might do watch -n 60 from To watch the contents of a
directory change, you could use watch -d ls -l If you're only interested in
files owned by user joe, you might use watch -d 'ls -l | fgrep joe' To see the
effects of quoting, try these out watch echo $$
watch echo '$$'
watch echo "'"'$$'"'" To see the effect of precision time keeping, try adding
to watch -n 10 sleep 1 You can watch for your administrator to install the
latest kernel with watch uname -r (Note that isn't guaranteed to work across
reboots, especially in the face of (if present) or other bootup time-changing
mechanisms)

Please send bug reports to


