whatis - display one-line manual page descriptions ] ...  Each manual page has
a short description available within it.  searches the manual page names and
displays the manual page descriptions of any matched.

may contain wildcards or be a regular expression Using these options, it may
be necessary to quote the or escape (\) the special characters to stop the
shell from interpreting them.

databases are used during the search, and are updated by the program.
Depending on your installation, this may be run by a periodic cron job, or may
need to be run manually after new manual pages have been installed.  To
produce an old style text database from the relative database, issue the
command:


where is a manual page hierarchy such as Print debugging information.  Print
verbose warning messages.  Interpret each as a regular expression.  If a
matches any part of a page name, a match will be made.	This option causes to
be somewhat slower due to the nature of database searches.  Interpret each as
a pattern containing shell style wildcards.  For a match to be made, an
expanded must match the entire page name.  This option causes to be somewhat
slower due to the nature of database searches.	Do not trim output to the
terminal width.	 Normally, output will be truncated to the terminal width to
avoid ugly results from poorly-written sections.  -s list, --sections=list,
--section=list Search only the given manual sections.  is a colon- or comma-
separated list of sections.  If an entry in is a simple section, for example
"3", then the displayed list of descriptions will include pages in sections
"3", "3perl", "3x", and so on; while if an entry in has an extension, for
example "3perl", then the list will only include pages in that exact part of
the manual section.  -m system[,...], --systems=system[,...] If this system
has access to other operating systems' manual page names, they can be accessed
using this option.  To search NewOS's manual page names, use the option

The specified can be a combination of comma delimited operating system names.
To include a search of the native operating system's manual page names,
include the system name in the argument string.	 This option will override the
environment variable.  Specify an alternate set of colon-delimited manual page
hierarchies to search.	By default, uses the environment variable, unless it
is empty or unset, in which case it will determine an appropriate manpath
based on your environment variable.  This option overrides the contents of
will normally determine your current locale by a call to the C function which
interrogates various environment variables, possibly including and To
temporarily override the determined value, use this option to supply a string
directly to Note that it will not take effect until the search for pages
actually begins.  Output such as the help message will always be displayed in
the initially determined locale.  Use this user configuration file rather than
the default of Print a help message and exit.  Print a short usage message and
exit.  Display version information.  Successful program execution.  Usage,
syntax or configuration file error.  Operational error.	 Nothing was found
that matched the criteria specified.  If is set, it will have the same effect
as if it had been specified as the argument to the option.  If is set, its
value is interpreted as the colon-delimited manual page hierarchy search path
to use.

See the section of for the default behaviour and details of how this
environment variable is handled.  If is set, its value is used as the terminal
width (see the option).	 If it is not set, the terminal width will be
calculated using the value of and if available, or falling back to 80
characters if all else fails.  A traditional global database cache.  An FHS
compliant global database cache.  A traditional text database.
Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk).
Fabrizio Polacco (fpolacco@debian.org).
Colin Watson (cjwatson@debian.org).
https://gitlab.com/man-db/man-db/-/issues
https://savannah.nongnu.org/bugs/?group=man-db


