whois - client for the whois directory service [ ] [ ] ] ]






searches for an object in a database.  This version of the whois client tries
to guess the right server to ask for the specified object.  If no guess can be
made it will connect to for NIC handles or for IPv4 addresses and network
names.	Connect to Do not display the legal disclaimers that some registries
like to show you.  Connect to First query and then follow its referral to the
whois server authoritative for that request.  This works for IP addresses, AS
numbers and domains.  this implies that the IANA server will receive your
complete query.	 Disable recursion from registry to registrar servers.	Be
verbose.  Display online help.	Display the program version.  Other options
are flags understood by and some other RIPE-like servers: Also search all the
mirrored databases.  Return brief IP address ranges with abuse contact.
Disable objects filtering.  (Show the e-mail addresses.)  Return the smallest
IP address range with a reference to an irt object.  Return the reverse DNS
delegation object too.	Search updates from database between and update serial
number.	 It is useful to obtain Near Real Time Mirroring stream.  Disable
grouping of associated objects.	 Inverse-search objects having associated
attributes.  is the attribute name, while the positional argument is the
attribute value.  Return primary key attributes only.  An exception is the
attribute of objects, which is always returned.	 Another exception are all
attributes of the objects and that are never returned.	Return the one level
less specific object.  Return all levels of less specific objects.  Return all
one level more specific objects.  Return all levels of more specific objects.
Return information about the server.  can be for the server version, for the
list of database sources or for the list of supported object types.  Disable
recursive lookups for contact information.  Disable following referrals and
force showing the object from the local copy in the server.  Request the
server to search for objects mirrored from Sources are delimited by comma, and
the order is significant.  Use the parameter to obtain a list of valid
sources.  Return the template for a object of Restrict the search to objects
of Multiple types are separated by a comma.  Return the verbose template for a
object of Search for only exact match on network address prefix.  When
querying the Verisign gTLDs (e.g. .com, .net...) thin registry servers for a
domain, the program will automatically prepend the keyword to only show domain
records.  The or keywords must be used to show other kinds of records.	When
querying for IPv4 or IPv6 networks, the CIDR netmask length will be
automatically removed from the query string.  When querying for AS numbers,
the program will automatically convert the request in the appropriate format,
inserting a space after the string When querying for domain names and no other
flags have been specified, the program will automatically add the flag When
querying for domain names and no other flags have been specified, the program
will automatically add the flag RIPE-specific command line options are ignored
when querying non-RIPE servers.	 This may or may not be the behaviour intended
by the user.  When using non-standard query parameters then the command line
options which are not to be interpreted by the client must follow the
separator (which marks the beginning of the query string).  If the
configuration file exists, it will be consulted to find a server before
applying the normal rules.  Each line of the file should contain a regular
expression to be matched against the query text and the whois server to use,
separated by white space.  IDN domains must use the ACE format.	 The whois
protocol does not specify an encoding for characters which cannot be
represented by ASCII and implementations vary wildly.  If the program knows
that a specific server uses a certain encoding, if needed it will transcode
the server output to the encoding specified by the current system locale.
Command line arguments will always be interpreted accordingly to the current
system locale and converted to the IDN ASCII Compatible Encoding.
/etc/whois.conf When querying and English text is requested unless the or
environment variables specify a Japanese locale.  A list of options which will
be evaluated before the ones specified on the command line.  This server will
be queried if the program cannot guess where some kind of objects are located.
If the variable does not exist then will be queried.  WHOIS Protocol
Specification.	The program may have buffer overflows in the command line
parser: be sure to not pass untrusted data to it.  It should be rewritten to
use a dynamic strings library.	This program closely tracks the user interface
of the whois client developed at RIPE by Ambrose Magee and others on the base
of the original BSD client.  and this man page were written by Marco d'Itri
and are licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public License, version 2
or later.


