xargs - build and execute command lines from standard input [options] [command
[initial-arguments]] This manual page documents the GNU version of reads items
from the standard input, delimited by blanks (which can be protected with
double or single quotes or a backslash) or newlines, and executes the (default
is one or more times with any followed by items read from standard input.
Blank lines on the standard input are ignored.	The command line for is built
up until it reaches a system-defined limit (unless the and options are used).
The specified will be invoked as many times as necessary to use up the list of
input items.  In general, there will be many fewer invocations of than there
were items in the input.  This will normally have significant performance
benefits.  Some commands can usefully be executed in parallel too; see the
option.	 Because Unix filenames can contain blanks and newlines, this default
behaviour is often problematic; filenames containing blanks and/or newlines
are incorrectly processed by In these situations it is better to use the
option, which prevents such problems.  When using this option you will need to
ensure that the program which produces the input for also uses a null
character as a separator.  If that program is GNU for example, the option does
this for you.  If any invocation of the command exits with a status of 255,
will stop immediately without reading any further input.  An error message is
issued on stderr when this happens.  Input items are terminated by a null
character instead of by whitespace, and the quotes and backslash are not
special (every character is taken literally).  Disables the end-of-file
string, which is treated like any other argument.  Useful when input items
might contain white space, quote marks, or backslashes.	 The GNU find -print0
option produces input suitable for this mode.

Read items from instead of standard input.  If you use this option, stdin
remains unchanged when commands are run.  Otherwise, stdin is redirected from

Input items are terminated by the specified character.	The specified
delimiter may be a single character, a C-style character escape such as or an
octal or hexadecimal escape code.  Octal and hexadecimal escape codes are
understood as for the command.	Multibyte characters are not supported.	 When
processing the input, quotes and backslash are not special; every character in
the input is taken literally.  The option disables any end-of-file string,
which is treated like any other argument.  You can use this option when the
input consists of simply newline-separated items, although it is almost always
better to design your program to use where this is possible.

Set the end-of-file string to eof-str.	If the end-of-file string occurs as a
line of input, the rest of the input is ignored.  If neither nor is used, no
end-of-file string is used.  This option is a synonym for the option.  Use
instead, because it is POSIX compliant while this option is not.  If eof-str
is omitted, there is no end-of-file string.  If neither nor is used, no end-
of-file string is used.	 Replace occurrences of replace-str in the initial-
arguments with names read from standard input.	Also, unquoted blanks do not
terminate input items; instead the separator is the newline character.
Implies and 1.	This option is a synonym for if is specified.  If the argument
is missing, the effect is the same as The option is deprecated; use instead.
Use at most max-lines nonblank input lines per command line.  Trailing blanks
cause an input line to be logically continued on the next input line.  Implies
Synonym for the option.	 Unlike the argument is optional.  If is not
specified, it defaults to one.	The option is deprecated since the POSIX
standard specifies instead.  Use at most max-args arguments per command line.
Fewer than arguments will be used if the size (see the option) is exceeded,
unless the option is given, in which case will exit.  Run up to processes at a
time; the default is 1.	 If is 0, will run as many processes as possible at a
time.  Use the option or the option with otherwise chances are that only one
exec will be done.  While is running, you can send its process a SIGUSR1
signal to increase the number of commands to run simultaneously, or a SIGUSR2
to decrease the number.	 You cannot increase it above an implementation-
defined limit (which is shown with --show-limits).  You cannot decrease it
below 1.  never terminates its commands; when asked to decrease, it merely
waits for more than one existing command to terminate before starting another.
always waits for all child processes to exit before exiting itself (but see
BUGS).

If you do not use the option, will not handle the SIGUSR1 and SIGUSR2 signals,
meaning that they will terminate the program (unless they were blocked in the
parent process before was started).

that it is up to the called processes to properly manage parallel access to
shared resources.  For example, if more than one of them tries to print to
stdout, the output will be produced in an indeterminate order (and very likely
mixed up) unless the processes collaborate in some way to prevent this.	 Using
some kind of locking scheme is one way to prevent such problems.  In general,
using a locking scheme will help ensure correct output but reduce performance.
If you don't want to tolerate the performance difference, simply arrange for
each process to produce a separate output file (or otherwise use separate
resources).  Reopen stdin as in the child process before executing the
command.  This is useful if you want to run an interactive application.
Prompt the user about whether to run each command line and read a line from
the terminal.  Only run the command line if the response starts with `y' or
`Y'.  Implies Set the environment variable to a unique value in each running
child process.	Values are reused once child processes exit.  This can be used
in a rudimentary load distribution scheme, for example.	 If the standard input
does not contain any nonblanks, do not run the command.	 Normally, the command
is run once even if there is no input.	This option is a GNU extension.	 Use
at most max-chars characters per command line, including the command and
initial-arguments and the terminating nulls at the ends of the argument
strings.  The largest allowed value is system-dependent, and is calculated as
the argument length limit for exec, less the size of your environment, less
2048 bytes of headroom.	 If this value is more than 128 KiB, 128 KiB is used
as the default value; otherwise, the default value is the maximum.  1 KiB is
1024 bytes.  automatically adapts to tighter constraints.  Display the limits
on the command-line length which are imposed by the operating system, choice
of buffer size and the option.	Pipe the input from (and perhaps specify if
you don't want to do anything.	Print the command line on the standard error
output before executing it.  Exit if the size (see the option) is exceeded.
Delimit the option list.  Later arguments, if any, are treated as operands
even if they begin with For example, runs the command (found in instead of
printing the usage text, and runs the command instead of rejecting this as
unrecognized option.  Print a summary of the options to and exit.  Print the
version number of and exit.  The options (-L, -l), (-I, -i) and (-n) are
mutually exclusive.  If some of them are specified at the same time, then will
generally use the option specified last on the command line, i.e., it will
reset the value of the offending option (given before) to its default value.
Additionally, will issue a warning diagnostic on The exception to this rule is
that the special value ('-n1') is ignored after the option and its aliases and
because it would not actually conflict.


Find files named in or below the directory and delete them.  Note that this
will work incorrectly if there are any filenames containing newlines or
spaces.

Find files named in or below the directory and delete them, processing
filenames in such a way that file or directory names containing spaces or
newlines are correctly handled.


Find files named in or below the directory and delete them, but more
efficiently than in the previous example (because we avoid the need to use and
to launch and we don't need the extra process).


Generates a compact listing of all the users on the system.  exits with the
following status: if it succeeds if any invocation of the command exited with
status 1–125 if the command exited with status 255 if the command is killed by
a signal if the command cannot be run if the command is not found if some
other error occurred.

Exit codes greater than 128 are used by the shell to indicate that a program
died due to a fatal signal.  As of GNU xargs version 4.2.9, the default
behaviour of is not to have a logical end-of-file marker.  POSIX (IEEE Std
1003.1, 2004 Edition) allows this.  The -l and -i options appear in the 1997
version of the POSIX standard, but do not appear in the 2004 version of the
standard.  Therefore you should use -L and -I instead, respectively.  The -o
option is an extension to the POSIX standard for better compatibility with
BSD.  The POSIX standard allows implementations to have a limit on the size of
arguments to the functions.  This limit could be as low as 4096 bytes
including the size of the environment.	For scripts to be portable, they must
not rely on a larger value.  However, I know of no implementation whose actual
limit is that small.  The option can be used to discover the actual limits in
force on the current system.

In versions of up to and including version 4.9.0, SIGUSR1 and SIGUSR2 would
not cause to terminate even if the option was not used.

The program was invented by Herb Gellis at Bell Labs.  See the Texinfo manual
for findutils, for more information.  It is not possible for to be used
securely, since there will always be a time gap between the production of the
list of input files and their use in the commands that issues.	If other users
have access to the system, they can manipulate the filesystem during this time
window to force the action of the commands runs to apply to files that you
didn't intend.	For a more detailed discussion of this and related problems,
please refer to the ``Security Considerations'' chapter in the findutils
Texinfo documentation.	The option of can often be used as a more secure
alternative.

When you use the option, each line read from the input is buffered internally.
This means that there is an upper limit on the length of input line that will
accept when used with the option.  To work around this limitation, you can use
the option to increase the amount of buffer space that uses, and you can also
use an extra invocation of to ensure that very long lines do not occur.	 For
example: Here, the first invocation of has no input line length limit because
it doesn't use the option.  The second invocation of does have such a limit,
but we have ensured that it never encounters a line which is longer than it
can handle.  This is not an ideal solution.  Instead, the option should not
impose a line length limit, which is why this discussion appears in the BUGS
section.  The problem doesn't occur with the output of because it emits just
one filename per line.	In versions of up to and including version 4.9.0,
would exit while some of its children were still running, if one of them
exited with status 255.	 GNU findutils online help:
<https://www.gnu.org/software/findutils/#get-help>
Report any translation bugs to <https://translationproject.org/team/> Report
any other issue via the form at the GNU Savannah bug tracker:
<https://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?group=findutils> General topics about the GNU
findutils package are discussed at the mailing list:
<https://lists.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/bug-findutils> Copyright © 1990–2024
Free Software Foundation, Inc.	License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later
<https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is
NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.  Full documentation
<https://www.gnu.org/software/findutils/xargs>
or available locally via:


