xmlwf - Determines if an XML document is well-formed
xmlwf  [OPTIONS] [FILE ...]
xmlwf  -h | --help
xmlwf  -v | --version xmlwf uses the Expat library to determine if an XML
document is well-formed. It is non-validating.	If you do not specify any
files on the command-line, and you have a recent version of xmlwf, the input
file will be read from standard input.	A well-formed document must adhere to
the following rules: • The file begins with an XML declaration. For instance,
<?xml version="1.0" standalone="yes"?>.	 NOTE: xmlwf does not currently check
for a valid XML declaration.  • Every start tag is either empty (<tag/>) or
has a corresponding end tag.  • There is exactly one root element. This
element must contain all other elements in the document. Only comments, white
space, and processing instructions may come after the close of the root
element.  • All elements nest properly.	 • All attribute values are enclosed
in quotes (either single or double).  If the document has a DTD, and it
strictly complies with that DTD, then the document is also considered valid.
xmlwf is a non-validating parser -- it does not check the DTD. However, it
does support external entities (see the -x option).  When an option includes
an argument, you may specify the argument either separately ("-d output") or
concatenated with the option ("-doutput"). xmlwf supports both.	 -a factor
Sets the maximum tolerated amplification factor for protection against
amplification attacks like the billion laughs attack (default: 100.0 for the
sum of direct and indirect output and also for allocations of dynamic memory).
The amplification factor is calculated as ..


	    amplification := (direct + indirect) / direct


.. with regard to use of entities and ..


	    amplification := allocated / direct


.. with regard to dynamic memory while parsing.	 <direct> is the number of
bytes read from the primary document in parsing, <indirect> is the number of
bytes added by expanding entities and reading of external DTD files, combined,
and <allocated> is the total number of bytes of dynamic memory allocated (and
not freed) per hierarchy of parsers.

NOTE: If you ever need to increase this value for non-attack payload, please
file a bug report.  -b bytes Sets the number of output bytes (including
amplification) needed to activate protection against amplification attacks
like billion laughs (default: 8 MiB for the sum of direct and indirect output,
and 64 MiB for allocations of dynamic memory).	This can be thought of as an
"activation threshold".

NOTE: If you ever need to increase this value for non-attack payload, please
file a bug report.  -c If the input file is well-formed and xmlwf doesn't
encounter any errors, the input file is simply copied to the output directory
unchanged.  This implies no namespaces (turns off -n) and requires -d to
specify an output directory.  -d output-dir Specifies a directory to contain
transformed representations of the input files.	 By default, -d outputs a
canonical representation (described below).  You can select different output
formats using -c, -m and -N.

The output filenames will be exactly the same as the input filenames or
"STDIN" if the input is coming from standard input. Therefore, you must be
careful that the output file does not go into the same directory as the input
file. Otherwise, xmlwf will delete the input file before it generates the
output file (just like running cat < file > file in most shells).

Two structurally equivalent XML documents have a byte-for-byte identical
canonical XML representation.  Note that ignorable white space is considered
significant and is treated equivalently to data.  More on canonical XML can be
found at http://www.jclark.com/xml/canonxml.html .  -e encoding Specifies the
character encoding for the document, overriding any document encoding
declaration. xmlwf supports four built-in encodings: US-ASCII, UTF-8, UTF-16,
and ISO-8859-1.	 Also see the -w option.  -g bytes Sets the buffer size to
request per call pair to XML_GetBuffer and read (default: 8 KiB).  -h, --help
Prints short usage information on command xmlwf, and then exits.  Similar to
this man page but more concise.	 -k When processing multiple files, xmlwf by
default halts after the the first file with an error.  This tells xmlwf to
report the error but to keep processing.  This can be useful, for example,
when testing a filter that converts many files to XML and you want to quickly
find out which conversions failed.  -m Outputs some strange sort of XML file
that completely describes the input file, including character positions.
Requires -d to specify an output file.	-n Turns on namespace processing.
(describe namespaces) -c disables namespaces.  -N Adds a doctype and notation
declarations to canonical XML output.  This matches the example output used by
the formal XML test cases.  Requires -d to specify an output file.  -p Tells
xmlwf to process external DTDs and parameter entities.

Normally xmlwf never parses parameter entities. -p tells it to always parse
them.  -p implies -x.  -q Disable reparse deferral, and allow quadratic parse
runtime on large tokens (default: reparse deferral enabled).  -r Normally
xmlwf memory-maps the XML file before parsing; this can result in faster
parsing on many platforms.  -r turns off memory-mapping and uses normal file
IO calls instead.  Of course, memory-mapping is automatically turned off when
reading from standard input.

Use of memory-mapping can cause some platforms to report substantially higher
memory usage for xmlwf, but this appears to be a matter of the operating
system reporting memory in a strange way; there is not a leak in xmlwf.	 -s
Prints an error if the document is not standalone.  A document is standalone
if it has no external subset and no references to parameter entities.  -t
Turns on timings. This tells Expat to parse the entire file, but not perform
any processing.	 This gives a fairly accurate idea of the raw speed of Expat
itself without client overhead.	 -t turns off most of the output options (-d,
-m, -c, ...).  -v, --version Prints the version of the Expat library being
used, including some information on the compile-time configuration of the
library, and then exits.  -w Enables support for Windows code pages.
Normally, xmlwf will throw an error if it runs across an encoding that it is
not equipped to handle itself. With -w, xmlwf will try to use a Windows code
page. See also -e.  -x Turns on parsing external entities.

Non-validating parsers are not required to resolve external entities, or even
expand entities at all.	 Expat always expands internal entities (?), but
external entity parsing must be enabled explicitly.

External entities are simply entities that obtain their data from outside the
XML file currently being parsed.

This is an example of an internal entity:


<!ENTITY vers '1.0.2'>

And here are some examples of external entities:


<!ENTITY header SYSTEM "header-&vers;.xml">  (parsed)
<!ENTITY logo SYSTEM "logo.png" PNG>	     (unparsed)
-- (Two hyphens.)  Terminates the list of options. This is only needed if a
filename starts with a hyphen. For example:


xmlwf -- -myfile.xml

will run xmlwf on the file -myfile.xml.	 Older versions of xmlwf do not
support reading from standard input.  xmlwf outputs nothing for files which
are problem-free.  If any input file is not well-formed, or if the output for
any input file cannot be opened, xmlwf prints a single line describing the
problem to standard output.  If the -k option is not provided, xmlwf halts
upon encountering a well-formedness or output-file error.  If -k is provided,
xmlwf continues processing the remaining input files, describing problems
found with any of them.	 For options -v|--version or -h|--help, xmlwf always
exits with status code 0. For other cases, the following exit status codes are
returned: 0 The input files are well-formed and the output (if requested) was
written successfully.  1 An internal error occurred.  2 One or more input
files were not well-formed or could not be parsed.  3 If using the -d option,
an error occurred opening an output file.  4 There was a command-line argument
error in how xmlwf was invoked.	 The errors should go to standard error, not
standard output.  There should be a way to get -d to send its output to
standard output rather than forcing the user to send it to a file.  I have no
idea why anyone would want to use the -d, -c, and -m options. If someone could
explain it to me, I'd like to add this information to this manpage.

The Expat home page:				https://libexpat.github.io/
The W3 XML 1.0 specification (fourth edition):	https://www.w3.org/TR/2006/REC-xml-20060816/
Billion laughs attack:				https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Billion_laughs_attack
This manual page was originally written by Scott Bronson <bronson@rinspin.com>
in December 2001 for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under
the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1.


