gzip, gunzip, zcat - compress or expand files [ ]
[ ]
[ ] The command reduces the size of the named files using Lempel-Ziv coding
(LZ77).	 Whenever possible, each file is replaced by one with the extension
while keeping the same ownership modes, access and modification times.	(The
default extension is for MSDOS, OS/2 FAT, Windows NT FAT and Atari.)  If no
files are specified, or if a file name is "-", the standard input is
compressed to the standard output.  The command will only attempt to compress
regular files.	In particular, it will ignore symbolic links.  If the
compressed file name is too long for its file system, truncates it.  The
command attempts to truncate only the parts of the file name longer than 3
characters.  (A part is delimited by dots.) If the name consists of small
parts only, the longest parts are truncated.  For example, if file names are
limited to 14 characters, gzip.msdos.exe is compressed to gzi.msd.exe.gz.
Names are not truncated on systems which do not have a limit on file name
length.	 By default, keeps the original file name and timestamp in the
compressed file.  These are used when decompressing the file with the option.
This is useful when the compressed file name was truncated or when the
timestamp was not preserved after a file transfer.  Compressed files can be
restored to their original form using or or If the original name saved in the
compressed file is not suitable for its file system, a new name is constructed
from the original one to make it valid.	 takes a list of files on its command
line and replaces each file whose name ends with .gz, -gz, .z, -z, or _z
(ignoring case) and which begins with the correct magic number with an
uncompressed file without the original extension.  also recognizes the special
extensions and as shorthands for and respectively.  When compressing, uses the
extension if necessary instead of truncating a file with a extension.  can
currently decompress files created by or The detection of the input format is
automatic.  When using the first two formats, checks a 32 bit CRC.  For and
checks the uncompressed length.	 The standard format was not designed to allow
consistency checks.  However is sometimes able to detect a bad .Z file.	 If
you get an error when uncompressing a .Z file, do not assume that the .Z file
is correct simply because the standard does not complain.  This generally
means that the standard does not check its input, and happily generates
garbage output.	 The SCO compress -H format (lzh compression method) does not
include a CRC but also allows some consistency checks.	Files created by can
be uncompressed by gzip only if they have a single member compressed with the
'deflation' method.  This feature is only intended to help conversion of
tar.zip files to the tar.gz format.  To extract a file with a single member,
use a command like or To extract zip files with several members, use instead
of The command is identical to (On some systems, may be installed as to
preserve the original link to uncompresses either a list of files on the
command line or its standard input and writes the uncompressed data on
standard output.  will uncompress files that have the correct magic number
whether they have a suffix or not.  The command uses the Lempel-Ziv algorithm
used in and PKZIP.  The amount of compression obtained depends on the size of
the input and the distribution of common substrings.  Typically, text such as
source code or English is reduced by 60–70%.  Compression is generally much
better than that achieved by LZW (as used in Huffman coding (as used in or
adaptive Huffman coding Compression is always performed, even if the
compressed file is slightly larger than the original.  The worst case
expansion is a few bytes for the gzip file header, plus 5 bytes per 32 KiB
block, or an expansion ratio of 0.015% for large files.	 The actual number of
used disk blocks almost never increases.  normally preserves the mode and
modification timestamp of a file when compressing or decompressing.  If you
have appropriate privileges, it also preserves the file's owner and group.
Ascii text mode: convert end-of-lines using local conventions.	This option is
supported only on some non-Unix systems.  For MSDOS, CR LF is converted to LF
when compressing, and LF is converted to CR LF when decompressing.  Write
output on standard output; keep original files unchanged.  If there are
several input files, the output consists of a sequence of independently
compressed members.  To obtain better compression, concatenate all input files
before compressing them.  Decompress.  Force compression or decompression even
if the file has multiple links or the corresponding file already exists, or if
the compressed data is read from or written to a terminal.  If the input data
is not in a format recognized by and if the option --stdout is also given,
copy the input data without change to the standard output: let behave as If is
not given, and when not running in the background, prompts to verify whether
an existing file should be overwritten.	 Display a help screen and quit.  Keep
(don't delete) input files during compression or decompression.	 For each
compressed file, list the following fields:

    compressed size: size of the compressed file
    uncompressed size: size of the uncompressed file
    ratio: compression ratio (0.0% if unknown)
    uncompressed_name: name of the uncompressed file

The uncompressed size is given as -1 for files not in gzip format, such as
compressed .Z files.  To get the uncompressed size for such a file, you can
use:

    zcat file.Z | wc -c

In combination with the --verbose option, the following fields are also
displayed:

    method: compression method
    crc: the 32-bit CRC of the uncompressed data
    date & time: timestamp for the uncompressed file

The compression methods currently supported are deflate, compress, lzh (SCO
compress -H) and pack.	The crc is given as ffffffff for a file not in gzip
format.

With --name, the uncompressed name,  date and time  are those stored within
the compress file if present.

With --verbose, the size totals and compression ratio for all files is also
displayed, unless some sizes are unknown.  With --quiet, the title and totals
lines are not displayed.  Display the license and quit.	 When compressing, do
not save the original file name and timestamp by default.  (The original name
is always saved if the name had to be truncated.)  When decompressing, do not
restore the original file name if present (remove only the suffix from the
compressed file name) and do not restore the original timestamp if present
(copy it from the compressed file).  This option is the default when
decompressing.	When compressing, always save the original file name, and save
the seconds part of the original modification timestamp if the original is a
regular file and its timestamp is at least 1 (1970-01-01 00:00:01 UTC) and is
less than 2**32 (2106-02-07 06:28:16 UTC, assuming leap seconds are not
counted); this is the default.	When decompressing, restore from the saved
file name and timestamp if present.  This option is useful on systems which
have a limit on file name length or when the timestamp has been lost after a
file transfer.	Suppress all warnings.	Travel the directory structure
recursively.  If any of the file names specified on the command line are
directories, will descend into the directory and compress all the files it
finds there (or decompress them in the case of ).  When compressing, use
suffix .suf instead of .gz.  Any non-empty suffix can be given, but suffixes
other than .z and .gz should be avoided to avoid confusion when files are
transferred to other systems.

When decompressing, add .suf to the beginning of the list of suffixes to try,
when deriving an output file name from an input file name.  Use synchronous
output.	 With this option, is less likely to lose data during a system crash,
but it can be considerably slower.  Test.  Check the compressed file integrity
then quit.  Verbose.  Display the name and percentage reduction for each file
compressed or decompressed.  Version.  Display the version number and
compilation options then quit.	Regulate the speed of compression using the
specified digit where or indicates the fastest compression method (less
compression) and or indicates the slowest compression method (best
compression).  The default compression level is (that is, biased towards high
compression at expense of speed).  When you synchronize a compressed file
between two computers, this option allows rsync to transfer only files that
were changed in the archive instead of the entire archive.  Normally, after a
change is made to any file in the archive, the compression algorithm can
generate a new version of the archive that does not match the previous version
of the archive.	 In this case, rsync transfers the entire new version of the
archive to the remote computer.	 With this option, rsync can transfer only the
changed files as well as a small amount of metadata that is required to update
the archive structure in the area that was changed.  Multiple compressed files
can be concatenated.  In this case, will extract all members at once.  For
example:

      gzip -c file1  > foo.gz
      gzip -c file2 >> foo.gz

Then

      gunzip -c foo

is equivalent to

      cat file1 file2

In case of damage to one member of a .gz file, other members can still be
recovered (if the damaged member is removed).  However, you can get better
compression by compressing all members at once:

      cat file1 file2 | gzip > foo.gz

compresses better than

      gzip -c file1 file2 > foo.gz

If you want to recompress concatenated files to get better compression, do:

      gzip -cd old.gz | gzip > new.gz

If a compressed file consists of several members, the uncompressed size and
CRC reported by the --list option applies to the last member only.  If you
need the uncompressed size for all members, you can use:

      gzip -cd file.gz | wc -c

If you wish to create a single archive file with multiple members so that
members can later be extracted independently, use an archiver such as tar or
zip.  GNU tar supports the -z option to invoke gzip transparently.  gzip is
designed as a complement to tar, not as a replacement.	The obsolescent
environment variable can hold a set of default options for These options are
interpreted first and can be overwritten by explicit command line parameters.
As this can cause problems when using scripts, this feature is supported only
for options that are reasonably likely to not cause too much harm, and warns
if it is used.	This feature will be removed in a future release of You can
use an alias or script instead.	 For example, if is in the directory you can
prepend to your and create an executable script containing the following:

      #! /bin/sh
      export PATH=/usr/bin
      exec gzip -9 "$@" The file format is specified in P. Deutsch, GZIP file
format specification version 4.3, Internet RFC 1952 (May 1996).	 The deflation
format is specified in P. Deutsch, DEFLATE Compressed Data Format
Specification version 1.3, Internet RFC 1951 (May 1996).  Exit status is
normally 0; if an error occurs, exit status is 1.  If a warning occurs, exit
status is 2.  Usage: gzip [-cdfhklLnNrtvV19] [-S suffix] [file ...] Invalid
options were specified on the command line.  file: not in gzip format The file
specified to has not been compressed.  file: Corrupt input.  Use zcat to
recover some data.  The compressed file has been damaged.  The data up to the
point of failure can be recovered using

      zcat file > recover file: compressed with xx bits, can only handle yy
bits was compressed (using LZW) by a program that could deal with more bits
than the decompress code on this machine.  Recompress the file with gzip,
which compresses better and uses less memory.  file: already has .gz suffix --
unchanged The file is assumed to be already compressed.	 Rename the file and
try again.  file already exists; do you wish to overwrite (y or n)?  Respond
"y" if you want the output file to be replaced; "n" if not.  gunzip: corrupt
input A SIGSEGV violation was detected which usually means that the input file
has been corrupted.  xx.x% Percentage of the input saved by compression.
(Relevant only for and -- not a regular file or directory: ignored When the
input file is not a regular file or directory, (e.g., a symbolic link, socket,
FIFO, device file), it is left unaltered.  -- has xx other links: unchanged
The input file has links; it is left unchanged.	 See for more information.
Use the flag to force compression of multiply-linked files.  When writing
compressed data to a tape, it is generally necessary to pad the output with
zeroes up to a block boundary.	When the data is read and the whole block is
passed to for decompression, detects that there is extra trailing garbage
after the compressed data and emits a warning by default.  You can use the
--quiet option to suppress the warning.	 In some rare cases, the --best option
gives worse compression than the default compression level (-6).  On some
highly redundant files, compresses better than Report bugs to:
bug-gzip@gnu.org
GNU gzip home page: <https://www.gnu.org/software/gzip/>
General help using GNU software: <https://www.gnu.org/gethelp/> Copyright ©
1998–1999, 2001–2002, 2012, 2015–2023 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright © 1992, 1993 Jean-loup Gailly Permission is granted to make and
distribute verbatim copies of this manual provided the copyright notice and
this permission notice are preserved on all copies.  Permission is granted to
copy and distribute modified versions of this manual under the conditions for
verbatim copying, provided that the entire resulting derived work is
distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical to this one.
Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual into
another language, under the above conditions for modified versions, except
that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved by the
Foundation.


