soelim - recursively interpolate source requests in or other text files GNU is
a preprocessor for the document formatting system.  works as a filter to
eliminate source requests in input files; that is, it replaces lines of the
form within each text with the contents of recursively.	 By default, it writes
requests as well to record the name and line number of each and so that any
diagnostics produced by later processing can be accurately traced to the
original input.	 Options allow this information to be suppressed or supplied
in TeX comments instead In the absence of arguments, reads the standard input
stream.	 Output is written to the standard output stream.  If the name of a
contains a backslash, use or to embed it.  To embed a space, write (backslash
followed by a space).  Any other escape sequence in including prevents from
replacing the source request.  The dot must be at the beginning of a line and
must be followed by without intervening spaces or tabs for to handle it.  This
convention allows source requests to be “protected” from processing by for
instance as part of macro definitions or requests.  There must also be at
least one space between and its argument.  The option overrides this
requirement.  The foregoing is the limit of understanding of the language; it
does not, for example, replace the input line .if 1 .so otherfile with the
contents of With its option, therefore, can be used to process text files in
general, to flatten a tree of input documents.	was designed to handle
situations where the target of a source request requires a preprocessor such
as or The usual processing sequence of is as follows.
	  input	       sourced
	  file		file
	    ⎪		  ⎪
	    ↓		  ↓
	preprocessor ⎯→ troff ⎯→ postprocessor
				      ⎪
				      ↓
				   output
				    file That is, files sourced with are
normally read by the formatter, is required for to source files.  If a file to
be sourced should also be preprocessed, it must already be read the input file
passes through the preprocessor.  normally invoked via option, handles this.
	  input
	  file
	    ⎪
	    ↓
	  soelim ⎯→ preprocessor ⎯→ troff ⎯→ postprocessor
	    ↑					  ⎪
	    ⎪					  ↓
	 sourced			       output
	  file					file displays a usage message,
while and show version information; all exit afterward.	 Recognize an input
line starting with even if a character other than a space or newline follows.
Search the directory path for and may be specified more than once; each is
searched in the given order.  To search the current working directory before
others, add at the desired place; it is otherwise searched last.  Write files
“raw”; do not add requests.  Emit TeX comment lines starting with indicating
the current file and line number, rather than requests for the same purpose.
If both and are given, the last one specified controls.


