zvbi-atsc-cc - ATSC Closed Caption decoder captures ATSC TV transmissions
using a Linux DVB device and decodes the enclosed Closed Caption data. It can
record both NTSC caption (EIA 608-B) and DTVCC caption (CEA 708-C).  Print a
short usage message.  Suppress all progress and error messages.	 Increase
verbosity.  Select a different DVB device to capture the signal
(/dev/dvb/adapterN). The default is adapter 0.	Select a different frontend on
the DVB device (/dev/dvb/adapterN/frontendM). Most devices have only one
frontend.  The default is frontend 0.  Select a different demultiplexer on the
DVB device (/dev/dvb/adapterN/demuxM). Most devices have only one
demultiplexer.	The default is demultiplexer 0.	 Select a different DVR
interface on the DVB device (/dev/dvb/adapterN/dvrM). Most devices have only
one DVR interface.  The default is DVR interface 0.  Decode an MPEG-2
Transport Stream on standard input instead of opening a DVB device. This
option is mainly intended for debugging.  Since Transport Streams can contain
multiple programs you must still specify one or more station names, which will
look up in a channel configuration file to determine the Program ID of the
video elementary stream or streams it should extract. You should also add the
option to clarify that this is an ATSC TS and the program should expect an
channel configuration file, which is otherwise inferred from the DVB device
capabilities.  To tune in a TV station needs a channel configuration file. We
use the config file of the tuning tool from the linuxtv-dvb-apps package. You
can create it with the tool from the same package.  The azap channel
configuration file is a text file which lists one station per line. Each line
contains six fields separated by a colon: The station name, the transponder
frequency in Hz, the modulation used (8VSB, 16VSB, QAM_64, QAM_256), the video
stream PID, the audio stream PID, and the service ID. Empty lines and lines
starting with a number sign will be ignored.  This option selects a different
channel configuration file.  The default is
List all stations in the channel configuration file and their transponder
frequency.  The station to tune in. Usually the -n can be omitted.  can record
caption from multiple stations at once if they share a transponder frequency.
Just specify multiple station names on the command line to enable this.	 With
the caption and XDS options you specify which data should extract. If multiple
station names are given these options apply to the succeeding station name.
You must specify at least one of these options for each station.  Print any
received caption on standard output.  Append any received caption to the
specified file.	 Print NTSC Closed Caption channel 1, 2, 3 or 4 on standard
output.	 Filter out NTSC Closed Caption channel CC1 ... CC4 and append the
text to the specified file. CC1 is the primary, CC3 the secondary caption
service. If both services are transmitted CC1 usually carries English, CC3
Spanish caption.  Filter out NTSC Text service T1 ... T4 and append the text
to the specified file.	Filter out DTVCC service 1 or 2 and append the text to
the specified file. Service 1 is the primary, service 2 the secondary caption
service. If both services are transmitted service 1 usually carries English,
service 2 Spanish caption.  Digital TV stations are supposed to transmit
language codes and other information about the available caption services but
these are not presently evaluated.  filters out text which does not appear to
be caption, such as tickers or vertically printed text.	 Do not print WebTV
links.	Prepend timestamps YYYYMMDDHHMMSS to caption lines. This is the system
time in the UTC timezone when the text was captured, specifically the Carriage
Return or Pop-On code responsible for printing the line.  Prepend timestamps
YYYYMMDDHHMMSS to caption lines generated from the timestamps transmitted in
the video stream. If date is given, also in the format YYYYMMDDHHMMSS, it will
be added to the timestamps, otherwise the counter starts at 0001-01-01
00:00:00.  Print caption one sentence at a time.  When type is "plain" prints
caption and XDS text without any markup. When type is "vt100" it faithfully
reproduces the caption foreground and background color, italic and underline
attributes by inserting VT.100 terminal control codes. With type "ntsc-cc" it
mimics the output of the and tool. The default is "ntsc-cc".  converts to the
encoding of the current locale, usually UTF-8.	Same as -j plain Print all
received XDS data on standard output.  Filter out eXtended Data Service data
(station name, program name, program rating etc.) and append it as text to the
specified file.	 Filter out specific XDS information: all, call (station call
sign), desc (program synopsis), length, network, rating, time, timecode,
timezone, title. Multiple -f options accumulate. The default is "all".
zvbi-atsc-cc -c NJN-HD
zvbi-atsc-cc --cc1-file wnyw.txt WNYW-DT --cc1-file wwor.txt WWOR-DT
(NJN-HD, WNYW-DT and WWOR-DT are TV stations in New York. WNYW-DT
and WWOR-DT can be captured simultaneously because they share a
transponder frequency.)
zvbi-atsc-cc --atsc --ts -c CNN < recorded-from-cnn.ts
zvbi-ntsc-cc, azap http://zapping.sourceforge.net Michael H. Schimek (mschimek
AT users.sourceforge.net)
timecop@japan.co.jp
Mike Baker
Mark K. Kim This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin
Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.


